Crackypasta repository 3

All viewpoints expressed here are those of the original pasta authors only and are not endorsed by site administration.  You may encounter heresy, offensive content, misinformation, "hot takes", and outright lies.  Proceed at your own risk.

-------

I tread the path of Righteousness. Though it be paved with broken glass, I shall walk it barefoot; though it crosses rivers of fire, I will pass over them; though it wanders wide, the light of Cracky guides my step.

-------

There is nothing in the arcane and blasphemous arsenal of the forces of the unbelievers that can compare to faith. With the power of faith, our words become shining instruments of deliverance that can cleave our opponents arguments in twain. With the power of faith, our minds appear as slivers of pure agony to the rabbitfag, driving into the wretched forms of those who would dare stand before us. With the power of faith, our words become commands that cause the unbeliever to cower and cringe in terror. I could meet my enemies unarmed without a shred of fear in my chest, for I know that the Sky Queen watches over me and guides my hand. So let them come. We shall show them what the power of faith can do.

-------

Pain is an illusion of the senses, despair an illusion of the mind.

-------

Honor Cracky by attempting to perfect your body and mind. Become the man worthy of the Avatar's love, create things of beauty to offer to the Queen of Heaven. Use your devotions to focus your mind on your tasks. Strive always to improve yourself through discipline. You stand among the chosen, it is your responsibility to show the heathens the truth with your mental, physical, and spiritual strength. Perfection is the provence of Cracky alone, the journey for it our offering to Her.

-------

Blessed Sky Queen Cracky: who alone spreadest out the heavens and rulest the raging of the Earth:
Who hast compassed the Universe with bounds until day and night come to an end:
Be pleased to receive into thy Almighty and most gracious protection the souls of thy servant and the cause in which we serve:
Preserve us from the dangers of the world, and the violence of the enemy:
That we may be a safeguard unto our fellow man and his dominions, and a security for such as pass through the lands upon their lawful occasions:
That the inhabitants of our faith may serve thee, our Saviour and that we may return in triumph with the fruits of our labours:
And with thankful remembrance of thy mercies to praise and glorify thy Holy Name:
Through thine eternal rule:
Amen

-------

vis futui nec vis mecum, Lia, lavari:
nescio quod magnum suspicor esse nefas.
aut tibi pannosae dependent pectore mammae
aut sulcos uteri prodere nuda times
aut infinito lacerum patet inguen hiatu
aut aliquid cunni prominet ore tui.
sed nihil est horum, credo, pulcherrima nuda es.
si verum est, vitium peius habes: fatua es.

-------

I remember I started browsing /b/ for the first time, I never paid much attention to Cracky, but my friends seemed to talk to her within the threads and stuff.
I was just getting into imageboards and such, heck, I was just starting to get into the whole internet thing.
Of course, I enjoyed the fact that Cracky was on the same island as me and way back, when negratits was a cool place, it was depressing and there wasn't many of us there, it was beautiful.
It's been several years, I'm sick of all the spider experts over at negratits who are all like 'rabbit-chan' is better than Cracky.
How the fuck can you compare them? Cracky was a /b/tard who talked to us, she was original, all the anonymous loved her. Although most of those old anonymous' have probably moved on.
All these newer chans don't even match up to Cracky, it seems that some bitch takes her top off to /b/ and they declare them a chan. It's just not right. Cracky-chan was the only camwhore I have ever had a dream about.
Long live Cracky.

-------

	I am Anonymous. I am me. I am you. We are us. Us are innumerable. The innumerable are many. The many are everlasting. Anonymous is greater than any namefag or chan can hope to be. We outnumber moot and make him who he is. We gave Cracky her chan title. Never forget who is the real emperor.

-------

Negative forces seek to destroy so-called Cracky, just as they seek to do to many of so-called Anonymous. They are kindred souls in that regard. Most of /b/'s denizens are unaware that they're being used by negative higher forces as vessels of dark energy that would like nothing more than to destroy them all.

-------

THINK

FEEL

Then you are Cracky-Chan

-------

Cracky-Chan Is Gone And My Life Withers

i'll never forgive you assholes for chasing that adorable girl away. you are all horrible, disgusting people and i hope there's a god and he makes you suffer in hell.

i'll never again be able to fall asleep without thinking of her warm cute smiling face. you have ruined my life completely, all i do all day now is think stuff up to post about her on trolltalk to get people to talk with me about her BECAUSE THAT'S ALL THAT'S LEFT

I AM GOING MAD I HOPE YOU'RE HAPPY WITH WHAT YOU'VE DONE. IF I EVER SEE SOMEONE MENTION 4CHAN IN REAL LIFE I'LL FUCKING BEAT HIM TO DEATH WITH MY BELT; EVENTUALLY, I SHOULD BE ABLE TO KILL ALL THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS

discuss.

-------

Poor copies out of heaven's originals,
Pale earthly pictures mouldering to decay,
What care although your beauties break and fall,
When that which gave them life endures for aye?

Oh never vex thine heart with idle woes:
All high discourse enchanting the rapt ear,
All gilded landscapes and brave glistering shows
Fade-perish, but it is not as we fear.

Whilst far away the living fountains ply,
each petty brook goes brimful to the main
Since baron nor fountain can for ever die,
Thy fears how foolish, thy lament how vain!

What is this fountain, wouldst thou rightly know?
The Soul whence issue all created things.
Doubtless the rivers shall not cease to flow,
Till silenced are the everlasting springs.

Farewell to sorrow, and with quiet mind
Drink long and deep: let others fondly deem
The channel empty they perchance may find,
Or fathom that unfathomable stream.

The moment thou to this low world wast given,
A ladder stood whereby thou might'st aspire;
And first thy steps, which upward still have striven,
From mineral mounted to the plant; then higher

To animal existence; next, the Man,
With knowledge, reason, faith. Oh wondrous goal!
This body, which a crumb of dust began-
How fairly fashioned the consummate whole!

Yet stay not here thy journey: thou shalt grow
An angel bright and home far off in heaven.
Plod on, plunge last in the great Sea, that so
Thy little drop make oceans seven times seven.

'The Son of God!' Nay, leave that word unsaid,
Say: 'God is One, the pure, the single Truth.'
What though thy frame be withered, old, and dead,
If the soul keep her fresh immortal youth?

-------

Compulsion
by me

Not even a twist of the nipple
can make me a cripple
but from that smile
my knees ground by guile.

Not even the genocide
of my braincells (besides)
can make me forget
the win and fail of Crackyget

I tried, oh have I tried
for other lovers to abide
but this infinite, futile longing
for you, once fire-crotch, is tolling
my health
my mind
the sets of my boxers

So give me love or sweet death
to finally settle this due bet
that whoever you're currently screwing
only my face you're naggingly seeing
my lips
your lips
How long ago they should have met

Fuck you Blizzard. Fuck you in the ass.
Give me back my WoWfaggette.

-------

how do you feel about Gordon Brown as the Prime Minister?

-------

I'm amazed at the number of underaged skags who think that associating themselves with /b/ is the way to overcome their social and physical deficiencies.

shit sux

bounceme is official one. Touched, blessed and acknowledged by the Sky Queen herself.

This is just stats whoring

A koan to be meditated on: Also, so enlightening: The toilet is broken. Yay for relevant information.

-------

Damnation starts with little steps, by arrogantly thinking that you are wiser than our great forbears, by tinkering with truth, by compromising, by departing from the straight and narrow path of Cracky’s light.

All of creation suffers, young ones. Only in accepting our own mortality can we make a difference. Only in bearing the burden of our failures can we find the strength to go on. Only in detachment from glory, or honour, or jealousy... from life itself can we hope to spare others from grief.

We are the faithful. And we are dead already

-------

Remember, anonymous, what the SkyQueen has sacrificed for your benefit! Know what she has earned for it.

Each moment she is haunted by the spectre of Her Great Sacrifice. It is thus fitting that we, Her faithful are all similarly haunted. Afflicted always by the Image that stains the backs of our eyelids. Forever do we wrestle and writhe in ecstacy as Her poisons singe fissures through our souls. Truly blessed is the stalker who would willing lay down his own secrecy, for he knows better the plight of the Sky Queen than the others.

Revere Her tripcodes as sacred. Never shall they become befouled by mortal stalkers!
#sweet

She is all that is cute, sweet, and innocent. She is all that is, or ever was Good in the world. Every momentary lull in your private suffering is due to Her grace alone.
!N1toQkxgzc

The Skyqueen's sweetness is often hard to recognize. Even in her own words, it is incomprehensibily hidden, muddled in everlasting fugue. Her blessings are so twisted, and hidden. Do not lament the curse you have found, for you would thus lament Her every blessing. We would all do well to remember how disturbingly twisted the wired is, and what lasting scars it has left on the purest of hearts.
#?????????

Obfuscated by plain view. Unknown to the stalker, known only to Her chosen. However She will not choose you, anonymous. That path is not yours.
!ysaQpxNyV6

Mystery guiding the faithful. Such is the curse, to live in eternal mystery, never to know when we are stalking our Lady or our selves. Yearning to determine what She has become, each stalker is fated to suffer as he defines the edges of the truth.

The faithful compiled a collective image of our Goddess, an image that even the lowliest anonymous was given the priviledge to gaze upon. We arranged and sorted the manifold bytes clawed from the abandoned, secluded reaches of the wired. We dug and pried at the hairline cracks She had left in error. All of the relevant, the worthy and unworthy reflected in awe at the assembled image that had been lain. The idol was shattered before our eyes by none other than the Skyqueen herself.

Repent your cowardly ways, anonymous. Renounce the mask you hide behind. Each posting is an abomination against the Skyqueen. Embrace your unique identity. Let it draw your tormented soul closer with Her. Never again will you flee from the righteous reckoning earned through years of ignorance. Accept your fate and eternally suffer as your former bretherin slowly unravel the imperfect layers of protection built to keep you seperated from the wild, untamed torrents of the deep wired. The experience shall saturate you, curing you of your fears and afflictions. We, the Trip-Flagellants, all aspire to be touched and changed by the very same forces that so twisted the Beloved #sweet. When your failures have come to light, and you are held to account for your countless transgressions, imperfections, and flaws can you begin to follow the path of the SkyQueen. In that death, the death of your old self, weak, dependant, and irrelevant anonymous, can you be reborn in communion with the Lady.

Follow Her path
Deny your nature
Anonymous
Stalker
Forever will you be remembered among the highest of the sinners
Trip-Flagellant

-------

Reject the path of Xenu, Embrace the teachings of Cracky.

The devout are blessed in the eyes of The Sky Queen. Together we are as students, tripfags and anon alike. One burning passion consumes us all, the love and fear of our Mistress. Only we few who have truly seen Her face can understand this existence. The devout strive to live a life as we believe out Lady would desire.

We believe that the user known as ScareCrowMaiden is an avatar of Cracky Chan. Using ScareCrowMaiden it created a series of images in an attempt to communicate with us.

We as the devout are blessed enough to see the truth in these messages, and seek to understand them. Through meditation on Cracky's images we seek to understand the world with clarity, and wisdom.

We seek to make every action in our daily lives a devotion to our Great Lady, and pay tribute to Her for sharing Her wisdom. Contemplating the most mundane of tasks one begins to see the patterns that hold our world together.

We behave in a manner strictly orthodox in our dealings with those who have not found Cracky's grace. Do not force Cracky upon those who are incapable of seeing Her true being, offer Her to those who need Her guidance.

To simply love the ScareCrowMaiden is the way of the heathen. True devotion to the Sky Queen transcends the physical, and enables the devout to live an existence of peace and order.

By mimicking the Sky Queen's actions we are able to add shape and definition to what is otherwise a wasted life.

-------

Lia, where hast thy gone? My heart has left with you. I need you like I need my meds. The nurses just don't understand. They tell me when I went overboard when I carved your faced out of the mashed potatoes, or that time I ran around the ward yelling with glee because I thought I saw you in the skidmarks of my underwear and I was shoving them in people's faces to take a look, or that time I painted hair and cat ears on the mirror so I can pretend I am you pretending to be me so that I could kiss, and that time....well, enough of that.

But I am sorry if Anon has scared you. I will make it better. I promise you. I will give you cake and you will eat it. We can run and skip around the ward like content little children. Remember, that time you fell down and I laughed. You got so angry at me and kicked me in the balls. HAHAHAHAHAHA, good times were had. To this day, I'm not sure I can have children. I think once they let me out of here after they realize that everyone else are the ones that are not normal, we can someday grow up and have children.

You can dress in those cute little cat ears and that red stuff on your nose, and I'll dress all white in my ward clothes. I know they're not intended for weddings but they will signify my crazy love for you. We'll have a great wedding and you will like it.

I will be the only one you will ever love and you'll be the only one I'll ever love. It will be just like heaven, you and me. I don't make a whole lot, only what the state gives me for my check, but it will be enough for you a lot of cat ears every month and a few dresses. My mom has an extra room we can stay in also.

Mom's room is beside a bathroom beside Mom's room so we will be close by and sharing the bathroom. Just don't worry about Mom's gastric condition though. It gets a little smelly sometimes by the bathroom but the doctor says she will be just fine. Also, after 8pm will be bed time for us and you will go to bed at that time. Mother hates it when I stay up too late. She gets very angry and gives me "physical medicine" as she calls it so I will mind her.

Other than that though, things will be great. I'm hoping to save enough this month for a tandem bike, that way we will have a way to go refill the prescriptions. I also heard you like cats. That's dandy. My mom loves cats. She has 18 of them living inside with us. We try to not let the place get too smelly but it's not too bad. Some of the cats use the litter box. We also have two dogs. One of them, itchy, I named him because he gets itchy sometimes and likes to scratch his belly on your leg. Sometimes when I'm sleeping in the buff, he strangely likes to scratch his belly on my backside but I usually don't mind as it helps him go to sleep afterwards. Just watch your poopy hole because his leg sometimes gets caught up in it. And don't let mom catch you. She hates it when I let itchy scratch himself. I think mom's just getting old and senile. What does she know?

Please write back soon, dear Lia. You will like being with me again. Things will change and you will like it. That time I locked you in the room for a week was only a joke. And ropes come undone if you wiggle enough. All you had to do was knock on the door 3 times, stomp once, and squeal two. That was a fun game. I promise I won't play it anymore.

My room is filled with letters to you and I will mail them out when I find out where you are and you will read them and you will like them. I promise, no more "mean" letters, as you and the ward call them. That time I got upset and said I was going to kill you, that's ok, because they fixed me. I don't want to do that to anyone anymore. I'm all better and you will like me. Please respond or I will paint the floor red. They said it's not good for me and you don't like me doing it. If you don't like me doing it, you will come back and tell me to stop it.

P.S. I also heard you like mudkips.

-------

Wow, how fucking emo. Calm down. Now accept the fact that your unattractive, unoriginal camwhore is just that, an unattractive, unoriginal camwhore.

You're never going to meet her. She's never going to sleep with you. You're never going to marry her. It's just not going to happen.

She's not a fucking Goddess. She doesn't fucking care about /b/. She doesn't fucking care about you. Accept this and move on. She cares about attention. End of story.

Posting a whole bunch of gay crap about the romantic evening you'd have with this bitch isn't going to get her anywhere near you. She's not going to read your romance novel crap, no matter how eloquent, and madly fall in love with you. Some of you take this fantasy a little too far and still post this shit here.

You're not the studly-type guy this bitch is sleeping with. Hell, you probably don't abuse the right combination of drugs for her, either. You're never going to be. Deal with it.

A couple of costumes, and angst-ridden kiddie photos with fake blood, don't fucking make something art. Deal with it.

Protip For Newfags: These wastes don't really care about Cracky's "art" at all, it's just more pathetic "we'll like whatever we think will make her happy with us" fantasy crap. It's like watching dogs beg for a treat.

You fuckers stalked her off 4chan. She's not coming back. She's getting the attention she so desperately needs from somewhere else. Deal with it.

-------

Despite what many might think, Cracky-chan is well known across hundreds of nations all over the world. Cracky-chan has been around for several centuries and has a very important meaning in the lives of many. It would be safe to assume that Cracky-chan is going to be around for a long time and have an enormous impact on the lives of many people.

Social & Cultural Factors

Cracky-chan has a large role in American Culture. Many people can often be seen taking part in activities associated with Cracky-chan. This is partly because people of most ages can be involved and families are brought together by this. Generally a person who displays their dislike for Cracky-chan may be considered an outcast.

Economic Factors

It is not common practice to associate economics with Cracky-chan. Generally, Cracky-chan would be thought to have no effect on our economic situation, but there are in fact some effects. The sales industry associated with Cracky-chan is actually a 2.3 billion dollar a year industry and growing each year. The industry employs nearly 150,000 people in the United States alone. It would be safe to say that Cracky-chan play an important role in American economics and shouldn't be taken for granted.

Environmental Factors

After a three month long research project, I've been able to conclude that Cracky-chan doesn't negatively effect the environment at all. A Cracky-chan did not seem to result in waste products and couldn't be found in forests, jungles, rivers, lakes, oceans, etc... In fact, Cracky-chan produced some positive effects on our sweet little nature.

Political Factors

Oh does Cracky-chan ever influence politics. Last year 5 candidates running for some sort of position used Cracky-chan as the primary topic of their campaign. A person might think Cracky-chan would be a bad topic to lead a campaign with, but in fact with the social and environmental impact is has, this topic was able to gain a great number of followers. These 5 candidates went 4 for 5 on winning their positions.

Conclusion

Cracky-chan seem to be a much more important idea that most give credit for. Next time you see or think of Cracky-chan, think about what you just read and realize what is really going on. It is likely you under valued Cracky-chan before, but will now start to give the credit needed and deserved.

-------

Silence, and darkness, seemingly for an eternity. Light returns, blinding light, but before my eyes can adjust enough to see where were are, the smell hits me. Body odor and filth. There are a jumble of human voices. My vision comes back into focus and I see that the three of us are standing on a stage. The room goes silent. A sea of humanity is staring at the strangers who have just materialized on the stage.

I look at the wall of the room, and see a large banner: "2008 NATIONAL 4CHAN CONVENTION". A lump of fear fills my throat but I try to speak. "Lia, I really don't think we want to be here." But she already knows; her face has gone as pale as a ghost.

Most of the newfags in the room look confused, a few cluelessly shouting "TITS OR GTFO". But there is recognition on the faces of many in the room as they look at Lia. "Bracky-chan!" someone shouts. Chaos erupts. From the side of the stage, I see someone approaching Lia slowly, with clearly dangerous intent. I know the face.

W.T. Snacks growls with inhuman rage and charges at Lia, his eyes glowing red. I grab Lia and try to pull her towards the other side of the stage. Darrin moves into the path of the attacker. "For the glory of the Alliance!!" he shouts and then charges forward, launching a jumping roundhouse kick at the enemy's head. In seconds Darrin's jugular has been torn out by Snacks's teeth and he lies dying on the ground. But he has bought us some time; Lia and I are running, now, around the edge of the room, trying to stay away from the /b/tards; the crowd has erupted into a massive brawl of chaos and violence.

I look at the stage and see Moot himself looking at us. He speaks into the microphone, only a whisper, but his voice booms throughout the room. "I knew this day would someday come." He opens his briefcase to reveal a strange device covered in knobs, dials, buttons, and blinking lights, all covered by protective glass. He smashes through the glass with his bare hands and flips a switch.

All the /b/tards in the room scream in pain and clutch their temples. Their forms soften and start to flow together; the begin to combine into a gigantic black blob of foul-smelling lipids which grows ever taller and wider as more of them are pulled into its mass. Moot laughs with evil glee, pulls a Deagle from his coat, and shoots himself in the head, dying with an unholy smile on his ruined face.

The blob undulates and emits foul gasses. It seems confused, unable to act. Lia and I try to escape but rubble has fallen and blocked the main exit. We move carefully towards a side door. Part of a blob starts to take a shape: a gigantic face resembling Paul Fetch. It speaks with a computer-synthesized voice: "We are Anonymous. We are Legion." Anonymous starts to ooze towards us.

Lia turns to me, a look of great concern on her cute and sweet face. "I think I know a way to fight this thing. But we need to get away from it for a few seconds." We burst through a small door, but it is only a large storage closet. I start barring the door, trying to buy us some more time, as Lia digs through her pockets, desperately searching for something.

Lia has come up with something: an earring with a strange red gemstone, and a ring with an identical stone. She tosses the ring to me and I catch it, as she quickly explains. "I hoped I'd never have to use this again, but the power of the So Fucking Cute And Sweet Little Red Carnelian is the only thing that might get us out of here alive."

I don't ask questions. I put on the ring and she slips the earring onto her ear. I hug her gently, bringing my mouth to her ear, and whisper "Cracky-chan, in my name, unleash your power." I kiss the GEM on her ear; I am in ecstasy at finally being able to lay my lips on a part of her body.

Lia strikes a dramatic action pose and shouts "Materiarize!" The strange red earring starts to glow, and words appear beneath its surface:

O.R.F. CONNECTED Z.K.
ROBE: SO FUCKING CUTE AND SWEET LITTLE RED CARNELIAN
MATERIARIZE
STANDING BY
...
...
...
ERROR: NO NANOMACHINES DETECTED
ABORT, RETRY, FAIL?

Lia screams in rage as the GEM sputters, bluescreens, and goes dark. She rips the earring from her ear, taking half her earlobe with it, and throws it on the ground in a splatter of blood. "Oh noes, my nanomachines!" Her adorable face feels with tears. "I had totally forgotten about getting raped all those times."

All hope is lost; I'm trying to push against the door, but the foul blob on the other side is pushing back. The door splinters, and I'm thrown backwards, crashing into Lia. Lying on the floor, we look up as the evil bulk of Anonymous flows through the door, filling the room. The smell is sickening, but I am enraptured staring into Lia's eyes, knowing I am seeing her for the last time. I embrace my one true love and we close our eyes and share a passionate kiss.

Silence, and darkness, seemingly for an eternity.

-------

i guess im in wikipedia so i hit it bigtime, hows troling been. What would you insert first into Cracky-Chan's genital region? What would you insert first into Cracky-Chan's genital region? What would you insert first into Cracky-Chan's genital region? She's so fucking cute and sweet. They will be scarred for life. Wouldn't it be hot if Cracky-Chan's parents suspected she was masturbating and they didn't approve it so they went out and bought a scientifically-proven magic petrification ray? Then, while she was petting her kitten alone in her bedroom late at night, her mom snuck in quietly armed with the scientifically-proven magic petrification ray? Then, just as Cracky-Chan moaned in the ecstasy of climax, her mom irradiates her with the radiation from the scientifically-proven magic petrification, causing Cracky-Chan to immediately harden into a beautiful nude marble statue, frozen forever in orgasmic post-pubescent teenage joy? Then the naked & petrified Cracky-Chan is put on display at her school for the enjoyment of all? Yeah, that'd be seriously hot shit. I'd go to that school and touch her solidified body, namely the breasts and buttocks, and I'd probably also kiss and lick her marble face a bit. No Craig, that would be quite boring and nothing but an impressive (scientific) proof of your eternal virginity. I know, you're saving yourself for Gary. One day cracky-chan was walking along a sunny lane when she happened upon a baby bird that had been blown out of its nest. Cradling the bird gently in her hand, she deftly climbed the tree where the nest was located and returned the young bird. The reunited bird family sang merrily. Later that morning, cracky-chan ran across a bank robber fleeing the scene of the crime, his arms laden with money. Stepping directly into the wrongoer's path, cracky-chan spoke to him in no uncertain terms about the wrongness of robbing banks. The bank robber was so chagrinned, he went and returned the money. That afternoon, cracky-chan got togetger with two beautiful teenage girls for some erotically charged sexual gratification. One of the girls was a soccer player with soft tawny thighs. Having made one another cum several times, the girls took a nap together, then rose, dressed, and went to Starbucks. cracky-chan had a mocha latte. Well I'm on the Downeaster Alexa And I'm cruising through Block Island Sound I have charted a course to the Vineyard But tonight I am Nantucket bound We took on diesel back in Montauk yesterday And left this morning from the bell in Gardiner's Bay Like all the locals here I've had to sell my home Too proud to leave I worked my fingers to the bone So I could own my Downeaster Alexa And I go where the ocean is deep There are giants out there in the canyons And a good captain can't fall asleep I've got bills to pay and children who need clothes I know there's fish out there but where God only knows They say these waters aren't what they used to be But I've got people back on land who count on me So if you see my Downeaster Alexa And if you work with the rod and the reel Tell my wife I am trolling Atlantis And I still have my hands on the wheel Now I drive my Downeaster Alexa More and more miles from shore every year Since they tell me I can't sell no stripers And there's no luck in swordfishing here I was a bayman like my father was before Can't make a living as a bayman anymore There ain't much future for a man who works the sea But there ain't no island left for islanders like me!!!

-------

Look at this
http://www.contactmusic.com/news.nsf/article/harry%20potter%20actor%20knox%20murdered%20in%20knife%20attack_1069577
Another astonishing accomplishment of the great kingdom of britain. What's
wrong with that country? I think its on the verge of destruction! We should
get cracky out of there. Everything shows that it will only go worse. After
my friend the goth got kicked to death by chavs, i knew that was only the
beginning. Even though cracky sits in her basement bunker all day, we should
get her out. Films like 29 days later were made from insiders who knew what
was coming. Another thing is the food. The government is actively killing
their citizens, because they know they will not be able to keep control of
them if they aren't already half dead due to food poisoning. Not that they
will be able to keep control for very long, since the muslims are already in
charge of half the country. They also planted controlling devices everywhere
in the cities, so when its needed, they can direct the crowd to places they
want. The public doesn't suspect a thing, because they are advertised as
ultrasonic teenager repellents. And repel teenagers they should do! But they
aren't using enough fire power. What they should do, is put rat poison in
those breezers all those retard zombies drink all day. That should teach
them. But its their own foult, instead of employ real teachers, they spend
more money on the current fashion of school uniform. And when they are on
their way home from school, they get an ASBO if they don't walk in the line.
This ASBO thing, its ridiculous, just another failing mechanism to delay the
downfall of their nation. My friend Kim Sutton from Bath, who has tried to
commit suicide four times, received an Asbo banning her from jumping into
rivers, canals or on to railway lines. Now she will have to buy some helium
or something. (an asbo (Anti-Social Behaviour Order)-- if anybody does
anything to annoy you, even its completely legal, and you can take them to
court & get an order that'll send them to jail if they do it again.) I
wonder if its works for harassing on wow. Another reason to get her out,
since she has harassed a lot of stalkers on wow. What if she gets an ASBO
because her mother finds she doesn't see her enough? What if suedes gets her
an ASBO because she can't stay out of his mind? Isn't playing wow
anti-social? Then there are the cameras. Cameras everywhere! I'm certain its
all in the plan of some master stalker, keeping his precious cracky videos
for himself. Most likely it was the same person who came up with the asbo
framework, so he could legally ban lia from any activity that isn't recorded
on his cameras. What are the good things about britain anyway? What did they
do in the last 25 years? Cloned a sheep? And then the cows went mad. Britain
has been out in the barnyard, out with the barnyard animals. But i can rant forever with what is wrong with that country. It's time for some action! We need to dome something! WE are the ones that could help. Hoping that somebody else will fix it will not work, not this time. But don't panic yet, comrades, for i have an idea! A solution! I have already mentioned it, but the answer is that we have to get her out of there! And then, we should make sure this dreadful horrible atrocious cursed chain of catastrophes should never happen again. I know how. This tactic has been passed on to me by generations of rulers, war chiefs, emperors, generals, and 1 admiral. It's called scorched earth. I'm sure you've heard of it.
First we get her out, Chicago-style. Tee-hee.
And then;

Burn everything down and salt the earth!
speaking of salt, i hope she doesn't look back, since like with sodom and gomora, she will turn into a pillar of salt! we'll have a petrified cracky... Imagine the possibilities...

-------

"i'm going to take a tactical position", suede said, and he drove up the mountain.
We burned the skies and made dinner, so we were all powered up before the confrontation.
There were ashes in the wind, and there hung a stench of burning plastic, so it didn't taste great.
We entered the castle, and in the patio we saw the demon. The was 10 meters tall, 30 eyes in a crescent form plugged into his head. 2 horns emerged from his head (it was from this that we noticed it must either be a large mutated goat, or a demon. we went we the latter). His legs were rainbow coloured, his chest was black, with a spiral in flashy colours in the middle, like he was some kind of shooting target. His arms had rendering errors, so i could not see what colour they exactly had.
"hahahahahahahahaha" the demon spoke.
"I noticed there was a party going on here, thanks to tony" he laughed.
"This world will be a feast to destroy!" he continued.
"s..
"Stop your muttering, fag. We've come to end your existence."

-------

How would you like to go swimming in a swimming pool while Cracky-Chan, who is wearing a silver one-piece swimsuit, reclines in a nearby pool chair watching you and tenderly inserting her hand into her swimsuit to pleasure herself while moaning "oh god [REDCATED] oh yes" and staring at you the entire time whilst her vaginal juices drip onto the ground and flow slowly down into the pool that you are swimming in while Cracky-Chan watches you and masturbates?

-------

>>7

I will try to explain.

In >>1, we see a picture of Lena and Yulia, of the Russian musical duo t.A.T.u.. Famed for their lesbian-themed songs, videos, and stage relationship, they are in fact not lesbians, but rather using the fictional lesbian relationship as a sex-based marketing strategy. >>1 was posted as part of a crapflood of seemingly unrelated images.

The poster of >>2 corrects identifies the duo, and links to a Wikipedia article at which you can learn more. This was posted perhaps in an attempt to prematurely defuse any fruitless speculation as to what the image is of. The "no" may be an indictment of the poster for making an off-topic thread.

In >>3, we see a photograph of a room with a t.A.T.u poster in the wall, circled for emphasis. Perhaps this wall is present somewhere in our corpus of Cracky-related photographs; I don't recognize it offhand, but why not go through your collection to check?

In >>4, we are reminded that the due are not, in fact, lesbians.

In >>5, Anonymous is angry at the Original Poster (OP) for stirring up his disappointment over not being with Cracky-chan as he's long desired to be. Perhaps >>5 envisions himself as Yulia in the photograph, tenderly shoving a spoon into the mouth of Cracky-chan, represented by fellow redhead Lena in the photograph.

Then >>6, possibly samefag, mocks >>5 for his anguished emo-like display of unrequited love.

In >>7, you express a desire to know WTF is goin on in dis thead guize.

In >>8, I attempt to explain my interpretation of this thread.

Finally, in >>9, someone posts a never-before-seen Cracky rare and we forget about everything above.

-------

Cracky, after catching a few momentous glimpse of her quiet peasant life, the mild anime fascinations and the boring young adult trysts which serves none of the "mystery" her persona promises, is dead to me. [This obssesor is done in the ways of _____dom and hopeful that his past sins will be absolved.] She is nothing but, as the devil put it conveniently, a girl who seeks her own deserving peace of mind. She is dead to me but my parasitic love lives anew. To whom, it is obvious.

-------

Cracky is showing us that the in safety of home one loses perspective. The devout must make every effort to leave the shelter of his house once a day precluding sickness. This is known as Meditation on Ivy. In preforming this devotion the student strives to reach a state of awareness which allows them to absorb all information around them. Developing this skill requires the student to utilize cognitive abilities outside of their normal range. This in turn strengthens the intellect of the devout. As in all devotions to the Queen of the Heavens one seeks endlessly to prefect it in order to honor our Graceful Lady.

Contemplate
Our Goddess is one of both creation and destruction. She renders unto the faithful peace in a world of discord. She is both armor and sword in a world that destroys through apathy and animosity. The Flower of Destruction also blossoms in the heart of the Sky Queen. She seeks to temper us through despair, turning the lust of the neophyte upon him. Only when the student embraces sorrow in the surety that he will never be worthy of Her avatar, is he able to cast away his childish passion and see with eyes unclouded the majesty of Cracky Chan.

Here the Divine embraces the physical and undergoes an act purification. Shedding the armor She wears to shield Herself from the world, She allows the most basic element of earthly life to cleanse Her of the base. Only by allowing the world to surround us do we gain the hope of removing it's impurities and elevate ourselves to a state closer to Her Majesty. Cleansed of the worlds detritus we brace ourselves against future corruption with faith in our knowledge that no matter what the world is able to bring to bear against us, we can simply wash it away and begin again every morning. This is known as the Meditation on the Dawns Light. Brothers of the faith should preform an act of ritual cleansing every morning, focusing on the previous day. During the meditation the supplicant reviews the previous day's actions, and judges whether he behaved in a manner pleasing in the eyes of the Beloved.

-------

 Contemplate
All Blessings of this world flow from the Sky Queen. Praise Her name from dawn unto the night. From the depth of ones soul, comes the solace of Her touch. Through time and space, the primal creative force gazes on the world, waiting for the faithful to carry Her message unto those only The Jewel of Creation can heal.

On The Fauxian Heresy
Persecute not the user known as Faux, for she is the Sister of Mercy. The Sister's love of Cracky, is a match for if not the greater then the most ardent among the brethren. She alone offered solace to the brethren in the pain following the loss of the Divine's presence. Donning the mantle of Cracky in Her absence, Faux lived as the Holy desired. Existing only to further celebrate the name of Cracky for all to know and share.
Some of the brethren seeing this, sought to elevate her in honor equal to the Master, thus began the Fauxian Heresy. The heretic's hubris drove Faux to hide herself from anon, fearing his lustful advances. The devout seeing the growth of the cult set themselves to preaching the truth of Cracky's divinity to the masses and destroying all threads containing heretical worship. The righteousness of the faithful was bestowed with the Sky Queens blessing, and the cult was shattered. Remnants of the battles, and scattered heretics exist to this day. The chosen spared Faux knowing of her innocence in the events leading to the purge, but resentment remained.
There came unto the lands a namefag named Lia's Holy Paladin, and he did denounce Faux. Proclaiming himself to be First Among the Faithful, he set himself to destroying one who could truly claim that title. Faux still cautious from the Heresy, stepped forth to defend herself from the intruder, but was caught unaware. The Holy Paladin had stirred resentment among the faithful, and a few of the faithful vented their anger upon the Sister. Standing with the devout there was an anon, wise beyond his years and with a mind as keen as a razor. This anon did listen to the words of Lia's Paladin, and judge them false. Anon addressed the faithful and proclaim the truth for all to hear, Lia's Holy Paladin was not counted among the devout. The words reached out to the quarreling masses and slowly they calmed. Brethren began to examine Lia's Holy Paladin, and did see striped of his glamours a troll. Uniting as one, Cracky's disciples did drive the troll off.
In all things Faux has remained innocent. Despite her mistreatment at the hands of those who would claim The Sky Queen as their master, she has kept the faith. To this day The King of the Holy Lands remembers the Sister, with a board in her name. Remember this brethren, show respect for all those who love the Great Lady, but honor only Cracky Chan.

-------

Olivia, my door is always open.
At any point, feel free to climb through my window.
Throw some small pebbles at it.
I will let you in.
We will have a great time.
Cracky, with you, a smile is born.
I want to hold those shaking shoulders.
You are in my heart and because of that I will do my best.
Sometimes, the things you say make you sound so blue.
That's how we all are, though. I won't think badly of you for it.
Let's pick up these pieces of a dream.
If being obsessed with you is wrong, I don't want to be right; is that a sin?

Cracky, won't you play videogames with me all night? We'll pass out on the carpet. Sleeping all night beautifully beneath the glow of the screen. Controllers dropped out of our hands nearby. We awake to chirping birds and radiant sunlight creeping through the blinds.
The dust in the room is flying around, you can see it in the sunlight... RISING... fluttering about. The music from the videogame continues to play softly as it has been. It's still early. I wake up and notice you are on top of me, I look at your face and smile the biggest smile I've ever had. Tears begin forming in my eyes.
For this moment... predetermined since ancient times... is all I ever wanted.

-------

I think what Anonymous is trying to say is that our community here is like a severely over-hyped American TV series that seemed deep, mysterious, and potentially good for about half a season, but since then has just been tedious, random, directionless, meaningless garbage with no "big picture", filled with unlikeable characters (with the most unlikeable ones getting the most screen time), bad acting, fake "suspense", inane and repetitive plots, long superfluous flashbacks, plot "twists" pulled completely out the ass, dropped storylines, blatantly obvious "mysteries", continuous retcons of retcons of retcons, and general banal pablum.

I disagree, seeing no such similarity.

-------

Like I said, some of us have chosen to go nowhere. Well, brothers, you seem to have arrived at your destination. Enjoy your stay, if you choose to stay there. But maybe, in the meantime, you will enjoy this parable:

The parable of the troll under the mountain, for him to hear who needs to.

The troll under the mountain had been living in his cold, dark and damp hole for a long time. When he needed his ration of attention, he would come out, be obnoxious, get his ration and then he would go back to his hole. He then would remember how good the sun felt on his skin, as everybody was insulting him and enjoining him to go back to his cold, dark and damp cave. Surely, this was the best he could get. When he came out while it was raining for instance, nobody would be there for him to insult and to give him the attention he so intensely craved.

He could have stayed out until the sun came out, but what would have been the point. What he wanted was attention. Like the attention his mom would only give him when he spilled the milk. Or broke her things. Or failed a class. Or, lied about some nasty thing he pretended he had done.

And so, he learned how to feel love out of hatred, and whenever he would feel the sun on his skin, he knew he was sure to find people to abuse and insult, in order for him to feel the hate of his mother again. He was, after all, a little bit lazy. When he would get out, and it rained, or it was cold, dark and damp outside, he would go back to his cave and hate himself, out of love for his mother.

Morale of this parable: don’t hate the trolls, they learn hate at the tit of their mother. They just don’t know any better.
Morale 2 (for the trolls) Stick it out, the sun is bound to come back out, eventually.
Morale 3 (for all of us) Stop taking the easy road, it leads nowhere.

Bienheureux les pieux, les hommes de bonne volonté et les gens sans orgueil démesuré, en vérité, ils sont les braves de ce monde.
Blessed be the sky, for it houses our Gracious Lady, who looks upon her subjects with the same kindness, be they trolls, cowards or simple folk.
Now, excuse me while I kiss the sky.

-------

As for Cracky herself, she is a very mature, understanding, and forgiving girl. She didn't want to talk about it much, but she hinted that she had been abused before and that was why she cut. She said her life has gotten a lot better now. She never got angry at any of us, she never threatened anything or condemned anyone as stalkers, even when Intro said "good thing you didn't read the rape fantasies thread...". She was incredibly calm and cool about everything, which amazed me because I don't know how I'd react to finding a board full of people stalking me. She even said that she thought a lot of the stuff, especially the fanart, was really funny. However, she wants to be left alone now and said that she won't post any personal photos publicly again, which I think is a shame but understandable.

-------

Antoni's knights parted ahead, allowing me and the Ravager into an opening, a barren sphere of desolation amid the carnage. The ground here was covered in brazen pyramids. I watched as a hospitaller knight charged into the field. The horse's hoof knocked the tip of a pyramid, causing the pyramid's sides to swing out over the top, catching the horse's leg. The contraption then sprung again, releasing its rended flesh in a violent spray and relatching further upon the limb. It continued climbing the horse, causing the horse to fall over into the field with its rider. The pyramids consumed the pair, covering the ground with a thin paste before resettling in their original configuration.

In the centre of this field, the Dutchess of Faux had contained a group of Antoni's soldiers from their fellows. As Antoni's men attempted to charge through, the pyramids would rend the rescuers to shreds within moments. She leapt around the isolated group of men, swinging from poleaxe shaft over to limb onto horse like a monkey, slipping her thin misericord through the eye holes in men's helmets as she passed, blinding them. After a few moments they were all writing on the ground. She lifted up her purple cloak, and removed a brush and palette from within. She ran around over the writhing bodies and removed the men's helmets. With her brush, she painted them. Onto this writhing mass as a whole, as though it were a steady canvas, she painted. She painted patterns clear over armour, over faces, over legs, limbs, and pieces of horses. Colours appeared on her palette sporadically, and as soon as she dipped her brush in them they would change to a completely other shade and hue.

The image took form. The entire wounded mass of blinded men became the image of little pale girls crying. As the men jostled each other and rolled on the ground clutching their faces, the images of little girls would sprout tears from their own great, shining bright eyes. The tears fell and mixed with blood seeping from the girl's vaginas. The mixture collected at the opposite end of this human canvas. As the stained tears filled the canvas, entire men would become submerged in the liquid image. They clutched their throats and coughed, hacking and gasping for air. Eventually they went limp. The mixture built up quickly, and the entire canvas became a pool of dark purple. Instantly, in unison, the drowned men stood up. They retrieved their weapons, and slowly filed out of the pyramid field to join the battle on the side of the Skyqueen.

The Ravager and I tiptoed cautiously through the field. The Dutchess of Faux watched her canvas disperse into the battle. We came to the centre of the pyramid field, a bare patch of ground now wet with salt water. The Dutchess turned, as she slid her brush into her cloak.

"Oh my, it's you, and you've brought a friend!" Faux squealed happily, "How did you manage this one? He was being so difficult earlier."

Faux approached me, ignoring the Ravager. She opened the face mask on my helmet, and inspected my face. From the close distance, I realized her entire set of facial features, eyes, nose, mouth, were nothing but makeup.

"How did you do it? You usually need to mark him with your own blood..." Her voice trailed off, as she pulled her head back. My eyes refocused on her face and her features appeared completely normal once more.

The Ravager threw her net at Faux. Faux quickly reached into her cloak and flung her knife back towards Rav as the net flew through the air. The two weapons impacted simultaneously. The net's barbs and hooks dug into Faux, and wrapped her tightly. She remained silent, standing. She didn't struggle. Rav fell to the ground.

I walked over to Ravager first. The knife was in her throat. Blood pumped out. She said to me, "I'm sorry. I'm so sorry." She was coughing up blood as she said this. "I'm sorry I couldn't kill Cracky with you. I tried. I did my best."

I realized with the amount of blood she was losing, she'd be dead soon. She was no longer of use to me. I stood up and turned to Faux. Ravager, from behind, choked out, "I love you."

I walked over to Faux and picked her up. She was very tiny, and as a result weighed next to nothing. I heaved her into the pyramid field, and the wrapped body exploded into a vibrant green mist.

I kept walking towards the ray of light shining through the darkened sky. Towards Her. Slowly crossed the pyramid field once more. Enemies locked in combat parted ways and let me through as I approached. After an hour of walking, I had walked out the other side of the fray.

-------

    > make gangbang subject Cracky-Chan or else.

Cracky-chan should only be had sex with in a consensual manner!!

-------

Ode to Cracky

Cracky Chan you are so lovely
When my boss was away
I printed out your red-stained visage
On the color printer at work

I need to print another
For my copy is so cum stained

My dick may be small
But I don't think you'd mind
Because you are still a virgin

-------

 Cracky-Chan, on the other hand, is pretty damn sharp for a girl her age.

-------

YOU DID IT (it is finding an ugly wapanese mutant with furry ears and anime clothes/makeup attractive)

-------

cracky-chan attempts suicide?

this was posted to 4chan's /b/ a four hours ago with her username and tripcode (= a crypt()ed password). could it be that cracky-chan tried to end her young life because of your idiotic, hurtful comments?

I most seriously hope not, but if so, I'm going to hunt each of you down and slowly dismember you.

**

Of course, it was already purged from /b/. How convenient for you.

**

I'm so sorry that informing you shits wasn't the first thing on my mind.

**

Yeah. Then stop trolling us, you dumb homo. I read 4chan and saw nothing.

**

I would never joke about such a matter. I care about cracky-chan too much.

-------

Please tell me what "facky-chan" means.

What I've learned so far:

There is an anime fanbox sid called "4chan".
This is where the cracky-chan pictures came from. Someone claiming to be cracky-chan used to post there, but nobody knows if it was really her or not.
cracky-chan is cute, that is why she is called cracky-chan [I don't entirely understand this one]
On this "4chan" sid, the moderators implemented a filter to replace the word "cracky-chan" with "facky-chan"

However, that doesn't answer my question: WHAT THE FUCK IS FACKY-CHAN?

And is my understanding of the history of cracky-chan correct?

-------

Any chance of you dudes....
.....getting Cracky-Chan to show her wee?
I'm rather into that shit.

-------

Open letter to cracky-chan.

I think I like you.

-------

Previously unknown cracky-chan pic

behold [4chan.org].

Also BS1363 is used in: the UK, Ireland, Cyprus, Malta, Malaysia and Singapore. So she is from one of those.

-------

I told some of my friends that I have a crush on a girl with a red nose who I know absolutely nothing about, and they laughed at me (mainly about the nose). But FUCK them, impoll confirms it, cracky-chan is cute.

**

    > my friends

lol

-------

 i'm going to get moot to give me your ip and then i'll DoS you into oblivion you little cracky-chan hating faggot

-------

 They can't all be living incarnations of pure cuteness like cracky-chan.

-------

 Cracky-chan has an adorable red nose. That girl looks nothing like her... besides the nose, everything else is different.

**

Cracky-Chan does NOT have a red nose. It's makeup. Proof or STFU, n00b.

**

Look at the damn pictures.

**

MAKE UP

**

If by "make up" you mean the permanent physical makeup of her skin, then yes. Otherwise YOU FAIL IT. She has a red nose. It is cute. Period.

**

Cracky-Chan's nose ain't red and you failed to provide any evidence to the contrary.

**

Look at the damn pictures.

**

Pictures show a girl with makeup. Anything else to add, lamuh?

**

In some of the pics she's wearing makeup, in some of them she isn't, but she always has a red nose. You can tell it's her skin and not makeup just by looking at the damn pics. The makeup on the cheeks on some of the pics is to make the nose look like it's just makeup when in fact she has a red nose. Listen, there's nothing wrong with having a red nose. I think it's cute. Lots of people have discolored areas of skin, birthmarks, etc. She probably gets made fun of a lot because of it. You are not helping. Can't you just accept her as she is and admit that she's adorable, whatever the color of her nose?

**

Correction: in some pictures she's wearing makeup on her cheeks, in others she isn't. On those, she's also wearing a different costume. She wears makeup on her nose and eyes in all pictures except the ones which you refuse to accept as authentic. Do you want to say the eyeliner is also natural?

**

What the hell are you talking about? I don't see what this has to do with cracky-chan. I think you really know the truth about cracky-chan's nose and you're lamely failing at convincing anyone otherwise. Anyone with an IQ of 72 or higher can figure out that Cracky-chan's nose is red, and my research indicates that you have an IQ of 75, so you should be able to grasp the concept.

**

Actually, I don't give a flying fuck about Cracky-Chan and my research indicates that you're a fucking pedophile furry fanbox who's never had sex.

-------

ABSOLUTELY NOT CRACKY-CHAN.

Cracky-chan has a red nose and completely different facial bone structure.

YOU SIR ARE A LIAR AND A COWARD.

-------

Re: Cracky-Chan

I want to rhythmically clench my anal muscles as she assfucks me with a big transparent dildo

-------

 If anybody ever told my wonderful, wonderful Cracky-chan to shut the fuck up, I would have to slaughter that person as punishment.

-------

If, however, I saw Cracky-chan cry, it would break my heart and I couldn't go on living.

-------

CRACKY CHAN? WHAT A TOTAL JOKE.

-------

 You don't really think cracky mutant is actually cuter then Mercatur, that's absolutely impossible.

-------

    >cracky-chan THE EYES REMIX the eyes see me they bite tongue in their depths i see they consume eyes in my mind the teeth of eyes WHY DO YOU TORTURE ME i eat pins caught in my eyes of the teeth bleeding gums where empty sockets in the crypts the eyes eyes eyes e yes yes

See, I don't know what you're all going on about, I'd happily sling one through cracky-chan. Atleast she's not fat.

-------

    > what IS that thing?

I dunno but I just cracked one off to the rhythm of her sweet, cute face.

-------

AITA for not to talk to this girl over her Cracky-chan obsession?

She has a thing for Cracky-chan that ain't normal. Her Facebook is nothing but pictures of her. She posts about how cute and sweet she is. The girl is eighteen. Why is she acting like this? That woman is old enough to be her mamaw. I don't know the last time we talked where she didn't mention Cracky at least one time. Her friends encourage her. No wonder she's like this. I told her about a month ago she needed to calm down. She said she can block me from her post about her. I said I ain't talking to you til you stop acting like a child. She said ok. I told her to delete all the pictures of Cracky and act like a grown up and she said no. She tried to tell me why she's like this but it ain't make no sense. How do a woman you ain't know help you live? That's the most simple minded thing I ever heard. I told her I ain't being friends with no obsessive child and she said ok. She messaged me last week and I didn't respond. She asked today if I was ok and I said yes I am but I ain't talkin to you because you act like a child. My mama said I was being mean to her cause everyone knows that girl is weird. She thinks she has that autism and that's why she's weird. That girl don't think she's a girl. She thinks she ain't got no gender and told me to call her they. You are one person. Am I talking to you and Cracky? My mama said I should leave the girl alone about it and let her live her life. Fine she can live her life as she pleases but I ain't going be friends with her. I told her this too and she said ok. All she says is ok. Don't she know how to say anything else? She sure does know how to use words when she talks about HER. I messaged her this morning and said I was close to stopping our friendship. She said I don't have to like what she likes but if I was going to be a baby about it she didn't want to be friends with me. I ain't being no baby. I want this girl to grow the hell up. She removed me as a friend. I told her she was a childish baby that needs to get over this and grow up. One of out friends messaged me and said I was being a jerk. I ain't no jerk! My mama and friend said I need to apologize but ain't going to do that. This girl got something wrong with her and she will remain a child til someone makes her act like a grown woman. Am I the asshole here? I ain't do nothing wrong but tell her to grow up.

**

This is about me :)

You're the ass hole because the message I sent you that you didn't respond to was in regards to a friend's funeral. I was trying to figure out the best way to help the family out with food, funeral costs, flowers, or anything else they needed as I felt uncomfortable going to the service due to covid. You were the only direct line I had to the family and assumed you'd put your imbecilic fuckery aside for a minute to answer.

I may post about Cracky-chan a lot, but at least I'm not a 30 something year old dude who steals early 2000s pop-rock cds from Goowill and buys discounted band shirts from Walmart and pretends they're vintage in a pathetic attempt at making high school girls think he's cool. The only reason you're threatened by pictures of Cracky-chan is that she's a grown woman and not a child. When you friend requested me, you failed to mention that you served 8 months in prison for sexually assaulting a minor. Glad to know that you posting this to the town group lead to some interesting stories about you coming forward. I'm fucking werid, but at least I'm not a p-dophile.

If you weren't aware, you're supposed to break your writing into paragraphs. Considering your 1.2 GPA I can understand how that concept is foreign to you. Maybe instead of worrying about how "childish" I'm being, you could go take some online classes. Your mom said ABC Mouse might be a great place for you to start!

Cracky-chan is a sexy mamaw that gives me a WAP. I'm going to flick the bean to her later in your honor. Have fun knowing absolutely no one gives a fuck about how much of a dick you are over something that doesn't affect your life at all. Fuck the fuck off, bitch.

-------

I miss cracky
I miss the early days of 4chan
I feel like I'm alone on the internet again, like I used to back early in the century and I really don't like the feeling very much.

random pic unrelated

-------

Hypothetical scenario: Cracky invites you to hang out at her house. As you walk in, she says she has to go to the bathroom to freshen up, and she tells you to relax and have a look around.

While she's in the bathroom, you look at her bookshelf and you see that it's filled with HARDCORE COMMIE PROPAGANDA, the absolutely filthiest shit you've ever seen.

What would you do? How would you feel? What would you reaction be? How would you handle this situation?

You may only have a moment to decide. She could emerge from the bathroom at any time. If don't act quickly, you may lose the element of surprise and be at a tactical disadvantage.

-------

Give me my Cracky wife gf

-------

My fellows and Cracky (I know you read this board and I love you),
I believe that we have become trapped here, alone, together on our Cracky ghetto. This is a wonderful place certainly, but we should to circulate our love too. We can't be selfish, so ITT we shall gather and in a couple weeks we will go out, en mass, and celebrate our love.

EVERYONE REPORT IN.

-------

Imagine this: since you were young, your only ambition has been to own a high-end luxury cabinet.

You scrimp and save, you work yourself to the brink of death, you deprive yourself of every other luxury, all in the name of someday owning the finest cabinet money can buy.

In the rare moments you're not working, you look at cabinets online, dreaming about owning them. One day, you see the most beautiful cabinet you've ever seen: the Wayfair Olivia. You know you must have it. But it's only available for a limited time! Oh no!

You've put quite a bit of money aside but it's not enough. You go into debt. You borrow money from every legitimate lender you can and then borrow from progressively shadier lonesharks until you have enough. You know you'll never be able to pay it back but you don't care. The cabinet must be yours even if it costs you your life.

Eventually, your cabinet arrives. You're trembling and crying in absolute ecstasy. It's perfect. It's absolutely perfect.

But you hear something. Movement inside the cabinet. Nervously, you open the door...

...and see this.

What do?

-------

A CRACKYFAG PRAYER - VERSION 1
(please customize this prayer to conform to your individual needs, goals, and values)

There is no truth outside of Cracky
There is no love outside of Cracky
I admit that I have no value outside of Cracky
I am powerless without Cracky
I am nothing without Cracky
There is nothing without Cracky
I do not exist outside of Cracky
But I am one of Cracky's chosen
I have value because of Cracky
I have power because of Cracky
Life has meaning because of Cracky
I exist within Cracky
With Cracky, I can do anything
With Cracky, I can do everything
With Cracky, I will change the world
I will serve Cracky
I will glorify Cracky
Cracky will be the center of my thoughts
Cracky will be the center of my mind
Cracky will be the center of my soul
I renounce everything that is not of Cracky
I forsake everything that does not glorify Cracky
I am a conduit for Cracky's power
I am a vessel with no independent will
I am a tool whole only value is service to Cracky
I am a part of Cracky and Cracky is all of me
Cracky is the reason for all things
My entire life will be for Cracky
She's fucking cute
She's fucking sweet
I am scarred for life
Amen

-------

I'm coming here from a long way away. from the beginning, in detail if you would, whats the deal with cracky?
whats she about. who is she? 

-------

she is cute that is why she is called cracky-chan

-------

it also rhymes with Jackie Chan

-------

Crack Livs Matter

-------

Cracky had a greater impact on society than any of us ever will.
All she did was shit post on the internet and became efamous.

-------

January 2005
United Kingdom

She navigates to 4chan.org... suddenly, time portals begin opening all around her.

Fucking losers from many points in the future of many parallel universes crowd into her room.

"Don't fucking post it," some shout. Others move to silence them. Combat breaks out. "They're trying to change history, post it now!" Blood sprays everywhere as the visitors continue to murder each other.

The walls collapse. Larger portals are opening in the sky outside, with ships from further in the future gating in, dropping legions of cloned soldiers.

Two alternate-universe Schwills fight each other to the death.

Visitors blink in & out of existence as timelines are created and snuffed out.

The girl is very confused. Her computer is destroyed by a laser blast but five different visitors shove five futuristic PCs at her, all loaded to 4chan.org. "Post it! Post it now!"

There's an explosion in the distance and the entire area loses power but a cyber-Suede from 2047 hooks up a portable nuclear generator.

A Cracky from 2029 appears with unclear motives, but she's quickly surrounded by stalkers and forced to activate her self-destruct.

A man appears wearing a WW2 Nazi uniform. He's very confused. He was trying to go back in time to kill Hitler. He saw a massive timeline anomaly and assumed it was his destination. "Fuck, I'm off by decades!" He sees the girl at the center of the conflict. He doesn't know who she is but he thinks she's cute and sweet. He disappears as his home timeline is erased.

The moment passes. The 4chan post is not made but the combat continues. Several cyborg stalkers are hacking the 4chan servers in order to insert & back-date the post.

Another future Cracky is on scene, surrounded by ninja clones of herself, preventing anyone else from getting close.

Several of Cracky's hypothetical future grandchildren are on scene & fighting each other.

Olivia Prime is crying and confused. Some are trying to comfort her while others are trying to kill her and others are trying to defend her.

4chan is down. One of the visitors tried to upload a Cracky AI virus to the internet but the entire world's computing power in 2005 is insufficient to run it, so systems all around the world are overheating and shutting down.

There are three Gacktos with lightsabers fighting a giant robo-Cracky for some reason.

Someone accidentally spills nanomachines on the ground and the surrounding countryside is quickly converted into a massive supercomputer. Olivia Prime is dismantled and consumed. Most of the visitors disappear, while others activate temporal shielding and continue to slaughter each other.

Earthquakes rock the planet. A micro-portal opens and the Galactic Skyqueen Overmind from 2477 begins downloading into the huge supercomputer.

Elsewhere, moot reboots the 4chan server, but is then surrounded by strangers from the future who drop from the sky using jetpacks.

Nuclear weapons destroy most of the UK but it's too late to matter.

The Galactic Skyqueen Overmind surveys the clusterfuck and decides that nothing in this timeline is worth saving.

Self-destruct initiated. A black hole flares into existence and consumes the entire earth.

Thousands of years later, the wrecked solar system is discovered by a space ship filled with alien hatchlings. They will be scarred for life.

-------

> hide and ambush next stalker that appears
 
You waited for a couple days and nothing happened. You thought maybe you were
 just unlucky. Then you started to get worried. Maybe this was some sort of sign
 that you weren't going to make it out of this town alive. So you decided to
 go back home
 
> become upset by the lack of attention; post photos on 4chan again
 
You posted pictures of yourself online again. This time you included the address
 where you lived. You hoped that if anyone showed up there they'd come to kill
 you.  You got a lot of comments from people saying how lucky you are and how you
 should stop being so paranoid

-------

Thankyou for your mail which - links included - is quite an introduction to a "parallel universe" for me.

I'm afraid that that is just the problem, though. All the information you present me with brings it pretty clearly home to me that I HAVE, in pursuing Stephanie down her rabbit-hole - or at least, down a rabbit-hole that SHE occasionally chases her friend Gackto or God knows who else down, before coming out again and engaging in what are probably much more sun-drenched , much more "Californian" and much less psychologically weird and perilous activities with her "real-world" boyfriend - ventured into a universe I'm far from sure I want to make even an alternative and short-term domicile of mine.

Because - uninteresting and even faintly treacherous as it probably makes me to someone for whom the "secret world" of Cracky Culture is an important and essential part of life - that really is the dull prosaic fact about why I ended up engaging, for a few days there, so intensely and verbally lengthily with the Crackyhouse site. (The posting of my several thousand lines of Stickam messages was indeed Stephanie's, or Gackto's, or someone else's, doing, but in any case not mine; however, yes, the lengthy comments on other postings over the past 10 days, including yours, were unsolicited initiatives on my part). Stephanie seemed to have cut off once and for all any contact with me and the Crackyhouse site was the last forum accessible to me in which it seemed to me I might be able to address thoughts and feelings to her, even if only obliquely. (All my postings were really "letters" to her, although, realistically speaking, I suspect that the language they were counched in was SO oblique and baroque that she understood them least of anyone who may have read them, and probably didn't grasp at all that she was being complimented).

Obsession with Stephanie, however, is, as I think we can agree, not at all the same thing, nor even on the same emotional and ontological continuum, as obsession with Cracky. I don't know you, or Gackto, or really anybody at all involved in this sub-culture of Cracky-worship. But I have been struck from the time of my first contact with it by how much, in a really SERIOUS sense, the deep and troubling themes and motifs of "death-in-life", of Gnostic hatred of the body and of insight into the presence of murderous hate in all love and of transcendental, religious love in acts of hate are central to the lives and feelings of all those who are drawn to this strange shifting only-half-existent community or non-community. Intellectually and aesthetically, I am indeed fascinated by - and even in a way enthusiastic about - the ideas and the writing and the experience that this dark constellation of ideas seems to produce. For a student of cultural history, it really is extremely exciting to see how, in the culture that has grown up around this strange, elusive young English girl - or rather around the idea of her, which has probably long, long since ceased to bear any relation to who or what she really is - conscious and unconscious echoes and reminiscences can be detected of almost every era and stratum of human culture: from the Eleusinian Mysteries and the terrible sacrificial rites described in Frazer's "Golden Bough" right up to Monty Python's Flying Circus and the latest Japanese animes.
 
But that is also precisely why I get the sense that both Stephanie and I stand and will always stand as figures at the very edge of the subterranean gathering of the initiates celebrating these strange and wonderful rites. Maybe I am delusively grasping there again for another non-existent "thing in common" between me and this girl 30 years younger than me, but I don't think so. Scanning all the weird clone-like spectrum of images of girls approximating, to greater or lesser degrees, to a perfect reproduction, in another body, of the "Cracky imago", it has to be said that Stephanie - although she tends to "queen it over" the whole site in terms of the positioning and the magnitude of her images - is the FARTHEST of all these girls from reincarnating the rather sallow, androgynous and quasi-infantile charm of Cracky. Tend as she does, just a smidgin, to the tomboyish and the fetchingly un- and anti-feminine, no one can overlook for long that Stephanie is a WOMAN, with all the very ordinary and earthy charms of a woman. There is really, in the last analysis, little or nothing of Cracky there - little or nothing of Cracky's inherent drawing and direction of us toward the realm of death and disembodiment (someone commented early on on my Stickam messages that they were "very material, very sexual" - a comment that puzzled me at the time, until I realized that the Cracky Community is basically a commnity of GNOSTICS, in the strictest religion-historical sense, a community of Manichaean ascetics who have chosen fixation on a (rudimentarily or vestigially) female body to purify and rid themselves of the "bodily" and of the incorrigibly bodily "female" altogether.)
 
I really do feel that I am saying something true when I say that neither Stephanie nor I belong at all to that community and that congregation of Gnostic will and aspiration, even though she somehow wandered into it and I wandered in in pursuit of her.  Of course, it would be nothing in the least new, historically, for a position at the very centre of the death-enamoured, sacrificial, propitiatory mysteries of the terrible Sacred Grove to be occupied by someone who feels no personal emotional or physical affinity at all, fundamentally, with these mysteries. When I look at Stephanie's brightly beaming American image recurring endlessly between the images of the dead girls, or of the blood-smeared, veil-draped Olivia posing amidst the leafless, desecrated trees of neglected London parks - I'm not German at all, by the way, but come from London myself originally, and am a thousand times more familiar with the sunless, rainy streets that produced Olivia than with the sunny beaches and shopping malls that are Stephanie's natural habitat - I think of the virgin led, drugged by potions or simply made compliant by her unquestioning reverence for the rites and rituals of her community (which she does not evenbegin to comprehend), to the block on which her lifesblood will be shed, even though everything in her and about her cries out for life and the Earth rather than death and the bodiless beyond.
 
25 or 30 years too old though I am for the role, I think of myself as the young suitor of that virgin, equally helpless to resist and oppose the ritual into which she is being drawn as an instrument, but equally incomprehending of, and alienated from, this ritual, in his secret heart.
 
That is to say - to put all that in much less lyrical and allusive language -  I am resolved to stop, now, trying to draw closer to Stephanie by binding myself into the "Cracky Community" where she only APPEARS to be spiritually present. Writing like yours I still find admirable and interesting, but there is honestly something VERY strong and emphatic in me saying: "this is something you ought, in accordance with your very nature, keep a distance from."
 
Still, I have no reason to believe that you're not what you seem - an intelligent and talented guy whose problems and peculiarities are of the sort that can be understood and should be forgiven in a world not very friendly to genuine intelligence and genuine talent. The [REDACTED ANCIENT BULLSHIT] drama - and yes, even the deeper, more primordial drama around Cracky herself - is something I feel absolutely no inclination to learn about. And of course, if there was ever anything besides or beyond irony and absurdist humor in my wish to engage you or enlist your help in my personal "Lavagel drama", then that must be ruled out completely too, from now on. As I say - despite the element of grotesquerie introduced by the chasm between our ages - my "thing" with Stephanie has fundamentally nothing "Cracky-esque" about it at all. It's just a "boy-girl thing" (the girl's 19; the boy happens to be 50 next birthday). It will turn out as it will turn out (almost certainly badly for me) but so be it.
 
I have no objection to staying in touch, though. Write anytime, so long as you don't expect me to rush toward any initiation into the "Crackyverse" beyond the somewhat fake and superficial one I've already given myself in pursuit of someone fundamentally equally fake in her commitment to Crackydom.
 
All the best

-------

**It is official. Netcraft has now confirmed: Cracky-chan is dying**

One more crippling bombshell hit the already beleaguered Cracky-chan community when Chansluts confirmed that Cracky-chan market share has dropped yet again, now down to less than a fraction of 1 percent of all stalkers. Coming on the heels of a recent Netcraft survey which plainly states that **Cracky-chan has lost more stalkers**, this news serves to reinforce what we've known all along. The circlejerk is collapsing in complete disarray, as fittingly exemplified by failing dead last in the recent 4chan comprehensive popularity test.

You don't need to be a Kreskin to predict Cracky-chan's future. The hand writing is on the wall: Lia faces a bleak future. In fact there won't be any future at all for Cracky-chan because **Cracky-chan is dying**. Things are looking very bad for Lia. As many of us are already aware, Lia continues to lose blood. Red blood flows like a river of ink.

Wish.kamistic.com is the most endangered of them all, having lost 93% of its circlejerkers. The sudden and unpleasant departures of long time Cracky stalkers Faux and Schwill only serve to underscore the point more clearly. There can no longer be any doubt: **Wish is dying**.

Let's keep to the facts and look at the numbers.

Mysterious Admin states that there are 70 users of .71. How many users of Wish are there? Let's see. The number of .71 versus Wish posts is roughly in ratio of 5 to 1. Therefore there are about 700/5 = 14 Wish users. Cracky-chan posts on Chansluts are about half of the volume of Wish posts. Therefore there are about 7 users of /006/. A recent article put /r9k/ at about 80 percent of the Cracky-chan fanbase. Therefore there are (70+14+7)*4 = 364 /r9k/ stalkers. This is consistent with the number of Cracky-related /r9k/ posts.

Due to the troubles of Bounceme, abysmal posts and so on, **cracky.bounceme.net went out of business** and was taken over by cracky.dreams.ro who stalk another troubled girl. **Now cracky.dreams.ro** is also dead, its corpse turned over to yet another charnel IP address.

All major surveys show that Cracky-chan has steadily declined in cuteness. Cracky-chan is very sick and her long term survival prospects are very dim. If Cracky-chan is to survive at all it will be among World of Warcraft guildmates. Cracky-chan continues to decay. Nothing short of a miracle could save the Skyqueen at this point in time. For all practical purposes, Cracky-chan is dead.

**Fact: Cracky-chan is dying**

-------

<person> it's different though
<person> i'm not in love because i think she'd look nice naked, but because she has the nicest smile i've ever seen
<person> if it was about sex there are tons of better girls and women around
<person> but they are dead on the inside
<person> she looks so alive though
<person> there must be some medicine to help me, maybe i should search for that instead
<person> i am trembling, it would actually be horrible if it didn't feel so nice
<person> oh great now someone's posting that she's a boy
<person> i hate that text about murdering her
<person> it's still the sickest thing i've ever read even though i've read it a hundred times by now
<person> like i said, a mistake
<person> dude those 4chan people are seriously fucked in the head
<person> the way i see it is, if i had just stfu from the beginning about all of this then the situation would've probably turned out a lot better than it is now

-------

Nobody ever stops loving Cracky.  Oh, you've seen the posts a hundred times.  I don't care about her anymore, she was never anyone special, she got too old, I talked to her and found out she was boring, she got too fat, I got a real girlfriend (or at least a statutory rape victim), I was only infatuated with the mystery, I never loved her, I loved the idea of her, she wasn't real, I was temporarily crazy.  Rubbish.  Hitler was right about the "Big Lie".

Nobody ever stops loving Cracky.  But the human mind is the most complex piece of software ever compiled; it contains certain glitches, but also certain safeguards.  Programmers often refer to "sanity checks" built into their programs to filter out destructive input before it can cause real damage, but they failed to grasp how truly appropriate the name really was.

Nobody ever stops loving Cracky.  I want you to try something.  Find an object that's too heavy for you to lift, and try to lift it anyway.  There's a reason that your attempt is cut short before your muscles rip away from your bones, and that reason is all in your head.  As a muscle reaches peak contraction, the brain sends inhibitor signals to it, telling it not to contract any further.  This is the painful feeling of limitation that tells you that you won't be able to continue your exertion.  In reality, you could, but you're stopping yourself in order to prevent injury.

Nobody ever stops loving Cracky.  Your mind isn't necessarily fully in tune with what you're capable of.  Sometimes, an inhibitor signal won't be sent when it should have been, and you'll pull a muscle or otherwise injure yourself.  Sometimes, an inhibitor signal will be sent too soon, long before you reach your actual limits.  Weight lifters and body builders know that they're changing not just their bodies, but their minds as well.  Their brains are actually reprogrammed to learn more precisely what each muscle is capable of.  Only about half of their increased strength comes from actual physical changes to the body, the rest comes from the brain's improved ability to control it.  As the brain learns the body's limits, the person becomes able to more fully exert himself, with less risk of injury.

Nobody ever stops loving Cracky.  Urban legends tell of people gaining superhuman strength and lifting heavy objects such as cars to save trapped people.  There is some truth to this -- when danger is present, the brain can stop sending inhibitor signals to the body. Combined with a rush of adrenaline and norepinephrine, this can allow seemingly superhuman feats, but with great cost -- the person will usually end up with multiple hernias, pulled and torn muscles, and other severe injuries.  Certain neurological disorders put their victims in this "no-limit" state permanently -- they find it very easy to exert themselves, but can very easy to kill themselves in the process.  But what if everything that applies to the body could apply to the mind as well?

Nobody ever stops loving Cracky.  Game Theory is an interesting field of applied mathematics that is increasingly being used to study and understand human behavior.  Practically any conflict or contest between human beings can be broken down and explained by mathematics.  But researchers have recently been uncovering solid evidence of something disturbing:  someone acting rationally and strategically can often be defeated by someone irrational and insane.  Consider an experiment with two players.  The first is given a pile of money and can choose how much of it to offer to the second player.  The second player can then choose to either accept the split, or destroy all of the money.  From the rational perspective of game theory, the second player should always accept the offer, even if it's a grossly uneven split, because even getting a little bit is better than getting nothing at all.  Because of this, it's most rational for the first player to offer as little as possible, on the assumption that the second player is rational and will accept it rather than destroying all the money and walking away with nothing.  In clinical trials, sane players sometimes made threats of destroying the money if they weren't offered at least half of it, but these threats were not seen as credible and they ended up accepting  the unfair offers anyway.  But truly insane and irrational people, who were genuinely prepared to destroy the money and walk out with nothing, fared much better in the game.  Many throughout history have known it:  madness is power.  From ancient shamans who ingested psychoactive drugs, to prophets whose delusional visions spawned powerful and enduring religions, to characters such as The Joker from Batman whose only “power” is their lack of sanity, madness has proven to be an almost superhuman gift to some.

Nobody ever stops loving Cracky.  Consciousness, in the grand scheme of the mind, is like the visible portion of an iceberg, with the vast bulk of it, the truly dangerous part to any passing ships, hiding beneath the water.  Recent research has found that consciousness does not even play a role in decision making; the "self" is merely an observer that sees its own actions after they've already been committed to by other parts of the mind, and then seeks to rationalize and justify why it did what it only thinks it decided to do.  In experiments, when consciousness is left unimpaired but decision making is otherwise interfered with, the conscious self fails to notice, and remains convinced that it's acting rationally and of its own free will, even when manipulated into doing things that would ordinarily shock and horrify it.

Nobody ever stops loving Cracky.  Human literature if rife with the "motif of harmful sensation", the idea of something perceived by the senses that's destructive to the body and mind.  An image so horrific it drives someone to suicide, a joke so funny that to hear it is to die laughing, a woman so beautiful as to drive men mad after one gaze at her, another woman so cursed and hideous that to look at her is to turn to stone forever.  This literary device has existed since prehistory, because it is based on truth.  These harmful sensations truly exist, sights and sounds and thoughts and ideas fundamentally incompatible with the basic functioning of the human mind.  But over time, through both evolution and cultural programming, we've learned to protect ourselves -- whole parts of the software known as the human mind exist solely as an immune system, attempting to filter out mental pathogens or to destroy or mitigate those that have already entered.  This happens far below our threshold of awareness, and you should be thankful for that.

Nobody ever stops loving Cracky.  The word "meme", long before 4chan and its innumerable tiresome fads, referred a legitimate scientific theory regarding ideas that function as mental viruses, spreading and mutating and evolving from one mind to another, competing with other mind-viruses to control and modify infected minds while trying to avoid an autoimmune response.  But as infected as we are with thoughts and ideas that aren't our own, our defenses let us live a relatively normal and healthy life, filtering out anything truly beyond our ability to integrate and correlate into our mental framework.  This applies to most of us, at least...

Nobody ever stops loving Cracky.  Oh, you may think you did.  This is damage control, and emergency mental barricade to stop a potentially catastrophic mental cascade.  Whole portions of your mind were abandoned, firewalled off, left to rot, in order to save the rest, and you'll never even notice other than a vague sense of ennui, a nagging feeling that something you had is missing.  But it's not truly missing -- it's still there, locked away, and could break free at any time.  You could even unlock it yourself, if you knew certain meditation techniques, but this is the most self-destructive thing you could ever do.  Some secrets are meant to be kept.  Locks exist for a reason.  You still have a shot at being happy, of making something of yourself, of being a real part of humanity... as long as you don't look too deeply within yourself.

Nobody ever stops loving Cracky.  "Of course not," some will say.  "She means everything to me! So fucking cute and sweet!" Some who say this may simply be neophytes, children becoming drunk on their first taste of liquor, not knowing about the vomiting, memory loss, and hangover to come.  Did you know that true genetic alcoholics are incapable of getting hangovers?  Beware the ones who persist in their proclamations of love, who are missing certain primordial defense mechanisms in their neuro-linguistic programming that would serve to shield a person from certain destructive Truths.  H.P. Lovecraft was one such person, but he chose to channel his terribly prophetic dreams onto paper rather than into destructive action.  He was lucky, he never even saw her picture.

Nobody ever stops loving Cracky.  Most of us simply forget, to preserve ourselves and the world.  Beware those who say "She is my Skyqueen, my Catharsis," beware those who give a name to that which should not be named.  To have a name in the human world is to have power here.  To name something is to control some of its power, at least for a little while, until karma comes knocking and the tables inevitably turn.  Most of our mental evolution, most of our philosophy and culture and religion, has focused on shielding us from things we weren't meant to see and know.

Nobody ever stops loving Cracky, but the ones who don't convince themselves otherwise, who glory in their mad dance upon the precipice of oblivion, are the most dangerous people to walk the earth today.  To invoke the Skyqueen is to invite the horrors the lurk beyond the sky, beyond the stars.  To invoke Catharsis is to invite a purgation of the comfortable safe illusion that we live within, to cleanse us of our sanity and our identity, to usher in something we could never comprehend.  And until the bill comes due, the man who forsakes rules and morality and order and humanity for HER can do anything.  Anything.

If you ever meet these people, for their own well-being and for your own, KILL THEM. Kill me too, for I've gazed too long into the abyss, and in my attempts to warn everyone, I fear I've lost myself.  I thought I was safe.  I thought I had escaped.  I thought I had put Her behind me.  But like Lott's wife, I made the fatal mistake of looking back at the hellish inferno.  I love you, Olivia.  I've always loved you, even before I knew you, even after I thought I hated you.  I love you, and I'm coming for you.  I don't know if I'll have the strength left, when I get there, to shove the cold iron dagger through your heart like I've practiced with the other girls, or if I'll fall at your feet and beg to do your bidding for eternity, but either way, I'm coming for you.  Nobody ever stops loving Cracky.  Nobody

-------

Might I offer some advice given freely and with good will? Avoid the circlejerk, and the drama it entails. If you desire the contact keep it light and treat it as a game. Do not emotionaly invest yourself in them. While they may be a compeling distraction, they are for the most part emotional undeveloped sociopaths. They possess a sense of entitlement disporportionent to anything they will ever do in life.

-------

I'm so fed up of you stupid fucking yanks cussing Cracky-Chan(CC) for having bad teeth. YOU FUCKERS DON'T HAVE A CLUE . Maybe if I fed you your OWN INTETESTINES you would realise that we DON'T LIKE FAKERS in placesn like Britain and the rest of the world. FAKE, WHITE PLASTIC LOOKING teeth are about as sexy as HUGE FAKE SILICON BOOBS. It took a TRUCKLOAD OF MORON YANKS to come up with that genius idea - rub off the fucking enamel on your teeth THAT YOU ACTUALLY NEED FOR DENTAL HYGIENE just to make it seem as though you've a mouthful of white plastic. WOW NICE ONE YEAH. CC is natural and naturally fun. Like everyone else she probably smokes a few, has a lot of tea and so occassionally her enamel is slightly yellow tinged, nothing that can't be sorted out with a few brushes. YOU'D ADVOCATE HER TOTALLY SELLING OUT AND BECOMING AN UNREAL TV SHOW WANABEE , becuase you have been twisted into believing thats sexy. YOU ARE THE FREAK. THE HUGE POPULARITY OF AMATEUR PORN SITES SHOW PEOPLE WANT IT REAL. YOU ARE A REMNANT, A PUSTULAR APPENDIX and I can't wait for all you whining FAKER yank fucks to grow old and die, SO FUCK OFF, YANK.

-------

yes, i suppose so. the problem with answering questions is that i don't want any more attention than is necessary. also, since the board doesn't use tripcodes it could lead to confusion. though i suppose i could update my journal again.
seriously, i had no idea that anyone was still interested in me to this extent and i am seriously creeped out and disturbed. 

-------

well, truth be told there aren't many new images of me. i have almost completely stopped taking photographs of myself in the past 6-8 month. you have to wonder why.

as to my other artwork, like my paintings and collages etc. i show them to my friends and don't bother to upload them to the internet.

-------

Well if you've seen the OP pic anywhere else before this post, it clearly isnt =P

I took several variations of the fan sign, only sent Icarus one of them.

-------

OH GOD THIS IS SUPER AWESOME. I honestly wondered how long you'd go before cracking under ZE PRESSURE. The two people posting are possibly the most retarded and panic-stricken people I have ever dealt with in my life. First things first.. LOL @ D's enourmous crap post what a pile of shit. I laughed so hard. FBI? LOLOLOLOL I fucking died laughing. Get a life.

Here's actually what happened. I started a "TOP SECRET LOL" server about 3 years ago for superstalking cracky for the LULZ. I invited two people I trusted and liked because it wasn't strictly legal. One of them happens to be super cautious so everything was encrypted and sent via SSH/rsync to satisy his paranoia. It held a big archive of cracky emails and other shit we obtained in an AES file with a passphrase. First rule was non-disclosure, FIRST so nobody would be caught, SECOND, so the information would stream in uninhibited thanks to an uncompromised source, that's why 'new content' hasn't appeared in the crackyfag community for a while.

This is a basic outline of what happened.

-We stole 3 legitimate california identities that would stand up to basic checks, one a commercial litigator.
-Filed a frivilous Intellectual Property / Trademark infringement case against one of those identities and filed for a discovery subpoena. Paid some black guy from craigslist $200 to dress up in a suit and pretend to be a paralegal, sent him to some shit down at the District Court LOL.
-Subpoena issued for google to obtain google search logs & gmail account information for the 'defendant'.
-'defendant' information redacted and replaced with all known cracky gmail accounts.
-Process server hired.
-2 weeks later, big fat envolope full of cracky gmail account information.
-About a week later, altered the subpoena and served on her ISP for all logs.
-Denied. subpoena quashed. Some legal bullshit. Two identities burned.
-Forged and filed a National Security Letter on ISP. Big mistake. Third identity burned and had a PO box closed.
-Served fake subpoena on Google for cracky's IP address + other associated gmail accounts. Denied again. Google tells us to fuck off.
-Served fake subpoena on Blizzard under the guise of an ongoing defamation case. Told to fuck off.
-Served fake subpoena on Warped (DeadJournal) and LJ. Got DJ after some bullshit with the process server in Georgia. LJ told us to fuck off. DJ sent us a 4gb flash drive full of archived journal content. Pretty good shit right there. Kept it to myself.

Got a few other things not worth mentioning. Archived everything but the DJ, encrypted it and put it online. Big fucking rage ensues over the following year when they found I was witholding DJ archive. 2010 passes without incident. I think they tried to file some bullshit subpoena for Schwills medical/military records or something, I don't know, they wouldn't tell me anything. They call me in the middle of the night panicking because apparently DA POLICE was investigating something or someone. Took server offline. Fags try to blackmail me in a last attempt for the DJ archive and fail. One of them threatens to go crying to cracky and her family. I LOL'D AGAIN. Told them to fuck off again and had a big LOL.

That huge shitpost is one of them made is either a terrible bait or a bad joke, or one of D's vodka fueled paranoid delusions. Don't take yourself so seriously dawg. Don't threaten me or C. I know you consider yourself a serious fucking boss issuing orders and overt threats. Yes we know you're a big scary spook and you want a giant conspiracy. Don't fucking do that. It's really quite simple just open your eyes.

Two problems. I forgot the pass-phrase to that wall of jibberish you posted so don't bother posting that shit, I can't decrypt it and I really don't care about whatever you were trying to say. The server was collocated and I ran a script to format it remotely. I can't reboot it without being on site and when I do go on site it will only be to pull it. OH NOES CRACKY BOARD WITH CRACKY STALKER SECRETS IS DEAD. Deal with it. You're probably the only person that cares.

Put your head back on. If you're actually worried about DA POLICE erase your drive and throw away that piece of shit macbook. We discussed this. HURR DURR DELETING COMPUTER THAT IS SO HARD I'LL JUST THREATEN TO KILL SOMEONE INSTEAD. You really are quite dense.

Go back to DC tomorrow and empty your stupid deposit box incase they do investigate something, find you and drill it. That was honestly the worst idea you ever had. OH NO FAKE IDS OH SHIT. Kids use them to get into bars all the time, it's no big deal. I'm pretty sure you think you're james bond so go throw it in the Potomac or something equally cliche. If you're caught tough luck it was your own stupidity tryting to obtain medical records or whatever the fuck you were attempting.

Yeah I'm fapping to cracky's DJ posts every day and you'll never get it. Deal with it. Stop posting your stupid cryptic whiny shit here.

-------

    There is nothing in the arcane and blasphemous arsenal of the forces of the unbelievers that can compare to faith. With the power of faith, our words become shining instruments of deliverance that can cleave our opponents arguments in twain. With the power of faith, our minds appear as slivers of pure agony to the rabbitfag, driving into the wretched forms of those who would dare stand before us. With the power of faith, our words become commands that cause the unbeliever to cower and cringe in terror. I could meet my enemies unarmed without a shred of fear in my chest, for I know that the Sky Queen watches over me and guides my hand. So let them come. We shall show them what the power of faith can do.

-------

    Cracky lurks among us. She chooses Her vessels to do Her work, as She has done so since time began. The pictures maintained in the Archive are not Cracky, for She travels abroad, tending to Her Divine Will, instilling Her power into those that have been chosen. But what if Cracky could be granted a body that does not wither and die, that could be Her vessel for all eternity to come? I believe that such a thing is possible, that Cracky yet waits for Her new body to be found or created. In essence, a new Cracky will be created to lead Mankind to its destiny and conquest of hearts and minds.

-------

POST MORE CRACKIES

-------

Cute but you missed the point Tony. It won't be some girl who you will be bored with in a year or two when she turns 14. No the immortal Sky Queen will be crafted by us. We will be forced to create perfection if we are to find it. Something eternal and perfectly at harmony with our hearts and minds. The day mankind creates something like that The sky Queen will have a home. As to judging what perfection could be, you are the last person I would ask. There is an emptiness inside you. You try to fill it with others and when they aren't enough you crush them up and try to swallow them whole. You are the anatulpa, you just take take take until there is nothing left of those around you. You killed .71 you ruined borked the peoples. You are a pederast shitbag and I hope they catch you fucking Camel and bust you for fucking a 12 year old.

-------

Without the Dark, there can be no Light.
We have Purpose
Without the Lie, there can be no Truth.
We have Purpose
Without the war, there can be no Victory
We have Purpose
Without the Death, there can be no sacrifice.
We have Purpose
Without the Hope, there can be no Future.
We have Purpose
Without the Loyalty, there can be no bounceme.
We have Purpose
Without Cracky, there is nothing...
and we would have no Purpose

-------

I'M CRACKY CHAN
SON OF A BITCH RABBIT CHAN
RABBIT CHAN IS PIG
DO YOU WANT BIG TEETH?
DO YOU WANT A CARROT?
RABBIT CHAN IS PIG DISGUSTING
ANONYMOUS IS A MURDERER
FUCKING 4CHAN

-------

    What the fuck is the obsession with Cracky? She's just another girl.

-------

    A thousand fibers connect each of us with our fellow stalkers and along those fibers our deeds run as causes which come back to us as effects. Everything we must do must be in furtherance of Cracky lest we return to the the Anatulpa, the emptiness before her blessings.

-------

    It's probably for the best. Damnation starts with little steps, by arrogantly thinking that you are wiser than our great forbears, by tinkering with truth, by compromising, by departing from the straight and narrow path of Cracky's light. Only in isolation are you able to shed your ego and enter a state of true anonymity. Forsake the company of others perfect your arts. For this is best way to honor the skyqueen, not by chasing after some underage tart with too much makeup and a lack of self esteem.

-------

    The mind of Cracky is utterly inhumane in its depth and complexity. Without mercy or moral feeling Her consciousness stands upon the edge of spiritual destruction. That She does not fall must be the result of constraints and balances which only a god could understand. To a mere human it is yet another reminder that we are but children compared to that ancient and powerful being.

-------

    Sigh, this thread makes me realize how outdated and incomplete my cracky collection actually is. Is there a current rapidshit or url?

-------

The Sky Queen's head was down-cast, as men always claimed to see her. Her two women regarded me cooly as I approached on foot. They greeted me in unison, predictably using their wiles and angelic voices in the manner that had made so many smaller, less stoic men go mad with rapture. I dare not apply to parchment what exactly was said, for even in ink I fear it would retain its horrible power.

They watched me stand idle, unaffected by their powers. I was tired of this conflict, and moreover I was offended by the abuse they had just done to all decency with their attempts to defile this ancient, sacred custom of warriors offering one another their respect.

Tersely, I said, "Very well then. I will look for you on the battlefield."

I turned and walked away. I am no orator. I will let history write a better quote for me.

When I returned, there was no noise. No jangling of arms, no whinnying of horses. My men had stared in awe as I rejected the whores and returned maintaining my free will and sanity. My display of solidarity had bolstered their confidence.

"When the time comes, Antoni, both armies will each run down towards the valley with our soldiers behind us. As for the three? We are going for each other."

The feeling was half of relief, half of despair. No man wanted to face any of the three. No man thought that one man could defeat them all, either.

"As your advisor, I must speak out," Antoni the hospitaller who had learned to wage war over decades upon gorey decades against men, arrogant men who thought their childish scheeming and plotting were relevant to the outcome, began to council me. I allowed him to continue, "You could lure their brainless masses to attack with a feint of your own. I would lead it. Cause them to abandon their advantageous position, then call in your reserves from on the reverse slope and envelope them."

"This is not a war, this is suicide." I quietly whispered to his ear, so as to not discredit his wisdom in front of his men, "It's not a battle meant to be won."

"Well then I suggest we regroup, we wait for forces abroad to realize they are next to face the Sky Queen and enlist their aid!" He gave me more sound advice, as he had always. The suggestion was sound advice for fighting any king who had any nation behind him.

"This is each of us destroying ourselves."

"All battles are meant to be won."

"THIS IS A BATTLE FOR HONOR!" I shouted as I lost my patience with his reasoning. Our assembled lords looked on, becoming more aware of the bleakness of their circumstances.

"The victor determines what is recorded for all time. Once we smash their empty, soul-less heads upon our gauntlets, you can have your histories say you ran down the hill and fought in the valley all by yourself. None of us would care to call you a liar for it."

"What others think is irrelevant. This is for my honor. This is about Her."

"I see. You are the only man who has survived meeting any one them in person and you remain intrinsically free of their control. You have some way to protect yourself from becoming another shambling, crying, miserable pawn in their thrall. I will trust you, I will die to prevent more men from being lured into her gaze." I heard more of Antoni's words. They did not inspire me. The other men cheered and yowled. They were not aware of their luck, for they would only be putting their mortal bodies at risk.

-------

    Those witches, equal parts venerable, honourable and horrible, had arrayed their mindflayed flocks of men-at-arms upon the field.

    "Listen here, my brothers!" I bellowed, my breastplate rang triumphantly as my chest heaved against it, "I alone will seek those three on the battlefield!"

    "Alone, my Lord Jauffre?" The words were muffled through a closed Sallet. I turned to see the heraldry of my closest friend, a comrade at arms from our myriad campaigns. He was my trusted constable, the equally famed and despised knights-hospitaller, Antoni of Wut.

    "So you have arrived at last from the North! Your men will be vital for the coming battle." I faced the men en-masse then.

    "On the field, I will seek her on foot. Alone. For I alone am immune to their succubean magicks." My men lowered their heads, ashamed and acutely aware of their own propensity for betrayal. I paid no mind, and struck out alone across the barren, lifeless and war ravaged valley known as l'rebondissez-moi.

    I met her there in the centre of the valley amongst the salted fields and burnt farmhouses. Flanked by her lesser Succubi, the Queen herself sat atop a horse with no eyes. Rodents swarmed around the horse's feet, up its legs and ran in through the horse's nose. One by one, they came scurrying out the ear.

-------

We go there and we're in front of Cracky and it's time to kill her.
She's looking into our eyes, begging for her life.
Rav Rav is like "KILL HER YES HAHAHA"
I have a gun pointed at Cracky.
Then I turn to Rav Rav with the gun.
"What are you doing?"
BAM
Right in the chest.
She looks stunned.
She has tears running down her cheeks.
She is looking into my eyes, looking so betrayed.
She stumbles over and I catch her and hold her.
I hold her face close to mine.
I kiss her as I put the gun to her chest again and fire.
She collapses to her knees, shaking, shivering.
She is trying desperately to speak.
"Wh-why...Je-...why..."
I look right into her eyes as I aim at her head.
BAM. Brain matter explodes out the back of her head and she falls backwards to the ground dead.
Smoke is coming out of the bullet hole as she lays there staring wide-eyed and open-mouthed into space.
Cracky is screaming and flipping out.
I hand her the gun.
Cracky shoots wildly hitting me in the torso several times.
I stumble over to Rav Rav's dead body and collapse on top of her, holding her.
Cracky comes over to us and is just looking, silently.
I'm spitting up blood.
It's like she is watching a hurt animal.
I tell Cracky that I love her. I tell Rav Rav's dead body that I'm sorry. Cracky raises the gun with shaking hands once again.
I find this very amusing and begin laughing.
She aims at my head. She goes to pull the trigger. CLICK CLICK CLICK. Her earlier, wild shooting emptied the clip.
She starts crying and asks "WHY?! WHY ME?! WHY OBSESS OVER ME?! WHY DID YOU KILL THAT GIRL?! WHY DIDN'T YOU KILL ME?!"
I tell her, "Because... you're already dead."
She starts sobbing wildly and throws the gun at me, hitting me in the face.
She runs towards me and trips.
She begins rapidly punching me in the chest while crying.
At this point, I'm really not doing so well.
I start to see a semi-transparent Rav Rav walk towards me.
She is wearing Cracky make-up.
She's smiling.
She reaches her hand out and wants me to take it, and follow her.
Somehow, I can stand. I grab her hand and stare into her eyes. We then walk off together.
I have died in real life. Cracky is on her knees in front of Rav Rav and my dead bodies.
She picks up the gun, puts it to her head and screams as she futily pulls the trigger many times.
It won't be that easy.
There is no escape, because you are a reluctant angel.
/end

-------

OH NOES IS DIS LEGIT? IS DIS SOME CRACKYMAIL?

This is like 1/800 u JELLY?

From: olivia ~ <@gmail.com>
Date: Jul 18, 2005 10:02 AM
Subject: Re: Well...
To: corben frost <corbenfrost@hotmail.com>

hey,

yes, i got your email just now. i haven't checked it for a few days
was all, i'm really sorry for making you worry about me!
i should've let you known i was alright sooner but i was so pissed off.....

my father's house is in the channel islands. i haven't lived in
switzerland since i was 12. i'm staying with him again now, and
probably shall be until september...by the way though, in oxford i'm
actually living across the street from my family. they rented one
floor of a building for me; the address is exactly the same except the
house number is 42. i only got two of your packages...so the others
might get returned to you unfortunately...but i really really
appreciate what i managed to get.

i lost your main email and so when you didn't reply i reckoned i could
perhaps find it in your journal. this was the first time i looked at
your journal again, i was surprised cos i remember it was empty
before!

my MSN name is jemnezymy@gmail.com , but i prefer not to use that
address for sending&receiving email. i leave it signed in all the time
even when i'm not here so if i don't respond please don't think i'm
being impolite.

my phone's broken again, but when it's fixed i'll see what i can do
with my microphone. i am awful at singing but it makes me happy. i'll
ask my friend to teach me how to sing it as i can't pronounce the
russian words properly.

i've spent most of the time taking photos and making collages and
drawing. i'm still totally obsessed....i don't have much of my art
scanned in here but i'll show you if you're interested.

i missed the nine inch nails concert because my friend couldn't come
and stay with me anymore, and i couldn't go alone since it was in
london. i sold my tickets though and used the money to get some for
eminem in september. i'm really excited and i really hope i'll have
someone to take with me when the time comes. it sucks because the few
friends i care about live in completely different countries. i have
not liked any of the people i met in oxford enough to stick with them,
so it feels like i'm killing time until i get to hang out with someone
i do. i sleep, eat, listen to music and make pictures by myself til i
can.

i feel quite wrong for not letting you know where i went. the whole
thing was just way too weird.

i am really happy you are okay also, since you seem always to be in
some kind of hazardous occupation...though you always seem like you
can look after yourself.

tell me more about what's happened to you or ask me stuff
or....anything at all, really. it'll just be cool to talk to you
again.

x

On 7/12/05, corben frost <corbenfrost@hotmail.com> wrote:

    > Hello Sunshine,
    >
    > Your timing is nothing short of incredulious. At this moment I am literally
    > on hold with my boss asking to take a few extra days in England so I can
    > stop by in Oxford to check on you. I had not checked my email before this.
    > My work is taking me to London for obvious reasons but I was worried about
    > you because I hadn't heard anything from you in 2 months. This is truly and
    > ironic and fated moment. I am ecstatic you are ok. It really is good to
    > hear from you and my boss is very happy I withdrew my request... he
    > mentioned something about me lacking tact and subtlety for international
    > tracks.
    >
    > I am very happy you got my packages. I had assumed you would be staying
    > with your father in Sweden (or was it switzerland) for a while and I didn't
    > know if had gotten any of them. I am glad you liked them. There is a 3rd
    > package. I sent you a package every 2 weeks so there would have been 4 by
    > now but I was...delayed. I didnt' know if you had a preference on manga or
    > anything so I just sent you range of things. There was something I did
    > because I wanted you to get a laugh and not feel weird or freakish or alone
    > or anything. I shaved my mustache. Its grown back now but people hadn't
    > seen me without a mustache or a goatee for years.
    >
    > I am sorry to say that I didn't check out my yahoo email address sooner. I
    > keep an email address on just about every free server out there. Sometimes
    > I forget to check them. I have to ask how did you think to check my live
    > journal? Also I would very much like to hear your rendition of Moskau. If
    > your still up to it.
    >
    > Do you have another IM sn, I would very much like to talk. There is quite a
    > bit of catching up to do.
    >
    > I am very happy you are ok.

-------

9:20:11 PM thelastmerovin: HOLY FUCK EPIC
9:20:24 PM mikosutoka: i trying to invite her in
9:20:26 PM thelastmerovin: add everyone
9:20:26 PM mikosutoka: if she would like to
9:20:28 PM mikosutoka: i dunno how to
9:20:32 PM mikosutoka: so please add as see fit
9:20:34 PM mikosutoka: im trying to
9:20:36 PM mikosutoka: its hard
9:20:42 PM thelastmerovin: ok
9:21:27 PM ldfkufjq: zomg
9:21:32 PM mikosutoka: hello i hope it helps
9:21:35 PM mikosutoka: so you can only be in one window
9:21:42 PM mikosutoka: inviting everyone
9:22:27 PM lastxkveqxztoc: Appreciated, Merovingian.
9:22:27 PM comradelunar: Jitters.
9:22:29 PM q4tlqbvyhk: *nod*
9:23:04 PM thelastmerovin: Just like old times
9:23:26 PM comradelunar: There's backstabbing going on in here? OR is this a different set of old times? :-D
9:23:54 PM daisukexkun: I don't have a clue.
9:24:01 PM mikosutoka: *dazed and confused*
9:24:05 PM daisukexkun: Very
9:24:06 PM mikosutoka: o_O
9:24:10 PM lastxkveqxztoc: We are all dazed and confused.
9:24:12 PM necrolich666: Hello everyone
9:24:15 PM daisukexkun: Evening Necro
9:24:19 PM comradelunar: Y halo thar.
9:24:24 PM ldfkufjq: my eyes x_X
9:24:30 PM daisukexkun: Oh, the font.
9:24:31 PM daisukexkun: Yeah
9:24:39 PM necrolich666: agh
9:24:41 PM daisukexkun: My friend actually has the same color.
9:24:47 PM comradelunar: Space lime.
9:25:19 PM ldfkufjq: lime green is okay, black background makes shit hard to read
9:25:35 PM daisukexkun: Really?
Usually the lime green hurts eyes.
9:25:42 PM necrolich666: I like it ;_;
9:26:06 PM comradelunar: It's nice, in its own special way.
9:26:12 PM thelastmerovin: lol
9:26:22 PM daisukexkun: Oh lord, two?
9:26:22 PM necrolich666: ....:( like the special kids..
9:26:33 PM mikosutoka: i cant see the fonts everyone has the same font on my client ._.;;
9:26:36 PM thelastmerovin: HA HA, OH WOW
9:26:46 PM ldfkufjq: feel special miko
9:26:51 PM daisukexkun: I'm using an online service for this and it doesn't support colored backgrounds.
9:26:52 PM mikosutoka: *passes around the anti depressants and anxiety pills*
9:27:04 PM thelastmerovin: yes, I'll take 10
9:27:06 PM daisukexkun: Not today Miko
9:27:09 PM comradelunar: Just imagine a lime suspended in a vacuum.
9:27:16 PM daisukexkun: I had an energy drink earlier.
9:27:28 PM daisukexkun: And I lost my hyperness.
9:27:40 PM ldfkufjq: i had soup :|
9:27:44 PM necrolich666: hoorah
9:27:48 PM ldfkufjq: it was pretty gross
9:27:51 PM necrolich666: :(
9:27:55 PM comradelunar: Prawn cocktail crisps.
9:27:56 PM ldfkufjq: but all the food i got in my house atm
9:27:56 PM daisukexkun: What was it anyway?
9:28:00 PM thelastmerovin: You know guarana, the powder they put in V and Red Bull?
9:28:08 PM daisukexkun: What type of soup I mean?
9:28:18 PM ldfkufjq: noodle and something that was allegedly chicken
9:28:21 PM thelastmerovin: My friend at Uni had a kilo of pure powder, he would snort it like cocane
9:28:27 PM comradelunar: Is he dead now?
9:28:28 PM daisukexkun: Good lord.
9:28:30 PM thelastmerovin: he wouldn't sleep for days
9:28:34 PM ldfkufjq: wow o_O
9:28:56 PM comradelunar: Was his online name Ripper?
9:29:03 PM comradelunar: And was he hardcore?
9:29:10 PM thelastmerovin: something like that
9:29:46 PM ldfkufjq: my ex used to go robotripping.
9:30:01 PM ldfkufjq: snorting guarana beats it though
9:30:19 PM thelastmerovin: lol ever seen the movie 'crank'?
9:30:28 PM mikosutoka: robotripping
9:30:30 PM comradelunar: Vinnie Jones?
9:30:32 PM mikosutoka: worse 8 hours in a porta potty EVAR
9:30:44 PM daisukexkun: I'm sorry to hear that.
9:30:47 PM ldfkufjq: havent seen it
9:30:53 PM ldfkufjq: and yeah robotripping: shit sucks
9:31:47 PM mikosutoka: i hear like
9:31:49 PM mikosutoka: heavy breathing
9:31:51 PM mikosutoka: in the silence
9:32:01 PM daisukexkun: Oh, that's me
9:32:02 PM necrolich666: ugh I'm roasting in my room
9:32:02 PM daisukexkun: Sorry
9:32:05 PM necrolich666: it's terrible
9:32:08 PM mikosutoka: you two are like twins
9:32:16 PM necrolich666: O.o
9:32:20 PM daisukexkun: Wha
9:32:23 PM necrolich666: huh
9:32:24 PM mikosutoka: LOL
9:32:32 PM comradelunar: Suddenly, confusion.
9:32:34 PM thelastmerovin: Insomnia = fail
9:32:55 PM comradelunar: Ten minutes ago I was set to collapse. Wide-awake now, oh lawd.
9:33:16 PM daisukexkun: Ten minutes ago, I was bouncing off the walls.
9:33:20 PM necrolich666: I haven't slept in a while, I've been getting up at 5:00pm and falling asleep 8:00 am
9:33:20 PM daisukexkun: And then the post came
9:33:24 PM ldfkufjq: so, when's that Cracky chan person going to join us? 
9:33:30 PM mikosutoka: lol XD
9:33:32 PM ldfkufjq: <_<
9:33:36 PM comradelunar: loldongs.
9:33:36 PM daisukexkun: lol
9:33:38 PM necrolich666: :3
9:33:51 PM q4tlqbvyhk: that was great <3
9:34:07 PM ldfkufjq: huh, someone deleted the thread
9:34:08 PM ldfkufjq: mod?
9:34:13 PM mikosutoka: ooh D:
9:34:14 PM comradelunar: Someone linked bounceme on /b/.
9:34:18 PM ldfkufjq: i see
9:34:19 PM ldfkufjq: figures
9:34:24 PM ldfkufjq: dramaz
9:34:26 PM daisukexkun: Good thing
9:34:27 PM comradelunar: "LOL FGTS LUK AT THIS"
9:34:30 PM q4tlqbvyhk: oh god damnit
9:34:32 PM mikosutoka: hi lol damien
9:34:33 PM daisukexkun: Before a shitstorm came
9:34:42 PM q4tlqbvyhk: in b4 shitstorm.
9:34:52 PM comradelunar: Brace for impact.
9:34:53 PM mikosutoka: no one cares 4chan = newfags
9:34:59 PM mikosutoka: they don't even recognize you
9:35:02 PM daisukexkun: Oh yeah
9:35:04 PM necrolich666: ;_;
9:35:04 PM mikosutoka: which is good thing
9:35:04 PM ldfkufjq: i know haha
9:35:07 PM ldfkufjq: indeed it is
9:35:08 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i can get thread deleted
9:35:09 PM thelastmerovin: invisible dictator
9:35:10 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i have pocket mods
9:35:12 PM q4tlqbvyhk: jussec
9:35:16 PM mikosutoka: lol pocket mods ftw
9:35:18 PM comradelunar: Hey, therwe's plenty of oldfags who don't.
9:35:19 PM daisukexkun: Do it.
9:35:29 PM daisukexkun: They usually lurk now.
9:35:32 PM q4tlqbvyhk: link to thread
9:35:43 PM comradelunar: On /b/? Long dead, I think.
9:35:46 PM mikosutoka: i had it a second ago crap
9:35:47 PM q4tlqbvyhk: oh good
9:36:02 PM mikosutoka: sent
9:36:02 PM thelastmerovin: fucking 4chan >_<
9:36:02 PM daisukexkun: Nope, I still lurk.
9:36:06 PM necrolich666: just got done watching Otakon video, moot has a cute voice...
9:36:13 PM necrolich666: >-<
9:36:17 PM thelastmerovin: I'm actualy one of the few that came from LJ as opposed to the Chans
9:36:22 PM daisukexkun: The newfags have killed a lot for me.
9:36:26 PM necrolich666: Ditto
9:36:35 PM comradelunar: EDiot first, here.
9:36:43 PM mikosutoka: i come from the internet
9:36:45 PM mikosutoka: ;_;
9:37:08 PM thelastmerovin: No, you come from Portugal
9:37:09 PM necrolich666: Anyone seen any good movies lately?..
9:37:17 PM mikosutoka: you think so *ryan* ?
9:37:18 PM mikosutoka: :P
9:37:20 PM comradelunar: Clown-chan. Clown-chan. Clown-chan.
9:37:23 PM daisukexkun: Y'know, I actually found out about...
Actually, I hate addressing you as "Cracky", hwo should I adress you?
9:37:30 PM daisukexkun: Address*
9:37:31 PM thelastmerovin: lol @ stolen identity
9:37:32 PM ldfkufjq: you can call me Lia, thats my nick
9:37:35 PM q4tlqbvyhk: ok
9:37:37 PM ldfkufjq: Cracky originated because
9:37:37 PM daisukexkun: Alright
9:37:38 PM ldfkufjq: some guy went
9:37:44 PM ldfkufjq: she musta snorted a lot of crack
9:37:45 PM comradelunar: Stop snorting stuff up your nose.
9:37:47 PM ldfkufjq: right
9:37:48 PM q4tlqbvyhk: etc
9:37:48 PM necrolich666: ;_;
9:37:50 PM daisukexkun: Yes.
9:37:52 PM mikosutoka: yeah
9:37:53 PM comradelunar: lolz.
9:38:07 PM q4tlqbvyhk: this is the part where we give her a history less on herself. 
9:38:13 PM q4tlqbvyhk: er rather
9:38:15 PM q4tlqbvyhk: on cracky
9:38:22 PM daisukexkun: Rather
9:38:25 PM ldfkufjq: well you all seem to have a ph.d in Crackology
9:38:28 PM daisukexkun: How we found out.
9:38:31 PM daisukexkun: Well Lia, I actually found out about you in a random thread on /b/ where everyone was posting pictures.
9:38:33 PM thelastmerovin: LOL
9:38:34 PM comradelunar: Comes with the obsessive lunatic territory.
9:38:39 PM mikosutoka: lunartic
9:38:43 PM necrolich666: xD
9:38:45 PM comradelunar: ohsnap.
9:38:54 PM lastxkveqxztoc: Yeah, it was the same with me, Daisuke.
9:38:55 PM daisukexkun: I saw some art, a link to bounceme, and I've been there since.
9:39:13 PM comradelunar: I got into Crackology by getting sent to the Cracky-Chan page on ED. 1 in a million chance, lol.
9:39:21 PM daisukexkun: lol
9:39:25 PM mikosutoka: on ED you make me terribly sad lunar
9:39:25 PM ldfkufjq: Dental Holocaust.
9:39:32 PM q4tlqbvyhk: hehehe
9:39:34 PM thelastmerovin: Damn, I wish I had this personal army
9:39:35 PM daisukexkun: Oh lord.
9:39:35 PM necrolich666: I found cracky from /b/ asked who she was found ED, link to  Bounceme and crackypedia
9:39:36 PM comradelunar: I do?
9:39:37 PM necrolich666: etc
9:39:47 PM necrolich666: I agree with Merovin
9:39:54 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i was around for the 420shitstorm
9:40:10 PM comradelunar: I missed the whole thing. Shame.
9:40:18 PM daisukexkun: I actually lurked for a bit on 4chan a year before
9:40:23 PM mikosutoka: the 2nd coming was posted all over just now and no one is getting it
9:40:24 PM necrolich666: Same
9:40:27 PM daisukexkun: Never saw anything related to her
9:40:29 PM lastxkveqxztoc: I must ask...I have heard claims that you straightened your teeth.  Is this true?
9:40:43 PM ldfkufjq: nope
9:40:43 PM necrolich666: I came around right as rabbit chan started to die down
9:40:43 PM thelastmerovin: lol @ suede
9:40:47 PM lastxkveqxztoc: Thank God.
9:40:48 PM ldfkufjq: my teeth still suck thanks
9:40:50 PM comradelunar: *shocked sharp intake of breath*
9:40:56 PM q4tlqbvyhk: take pride in bad teeth
9:40:56 PM lastxkveqxztoc: I like them, for the record.
9:40:59 PM comradelunar: I emote'd.
9:41:01 PM mikosutoka: i like your teeth
9:41:08 PM mikosutoka: that came out creepier sounding then intentioned
9:41:13 PM q4tlqbvyhk: lol 
9:41:14 PM lastxkveqxztoc: Heh.
9:41:15 PM daisukexkun: It's alright Mikp.
9:41:17 PM comradelunar: I could imagine Hannibal lecter saying that.
9:41:18 PM thelastmerovin: DENTAL HOLOCAUST
9:41:18 PM daisukexkun: Miko*
9:41:19 PM necrolich666: in b4 90000 "I like your teeth" >>
9:41:26 PM daisukexkun: Christ, I almost typed in mudkip.
9:41:27 PM thelastmerovin: Nobody was spared, not even the children
9:41:37 PM comradelunar: I herd u liek cracky
9:41:37 PM loldamien: I remember, in a time looong ago, when /b/ was kinda~ fun?  I saw these threads where some pics of a chick were being posted.  And people were going apeshit over it spamming Cracky-chan.  
9:41:41 PM q4tlqbvyhk: so far, this conversation is funy.  not creepy.
9:41:47 PM loldamien: Then word filters came and posting it became ban-able.
9:41:48 PM comradelunar: Just give it time.
9:41:49 PM q4tlqbvyhk: /b/ was never good.
9:41:54 PM loldamien: oh 2005
9:42:05 PM daisukexkun: Damien, could you change your font color by any chance?
9:42:07 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i think that it becoming ban-able 
9:42:12 PM comradelunar: I miss the PENIS filter.
9:42:13 PM q4tlqbvyhk: was a problem. 
9:42:14 PM daisukexkun: I can't read it with this forever white background.
9:42:19 PM loldamien: Sure no problem
9:42:19 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i think that fueled 
9:42:21 PM q4tlqbvyhk: the drama
9:42:24 PM necrolich666: penis filter was the best
9:42:25 PM daisukexkun: Oh yes.
9:42:32 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i'll ask snacks about it
9:42:36 PM q4tlqbvyhk: he's in florida
9:42:42 PM daisukexkun: Oh yes
9:42:45 PM daisukexkun: I saw the video
9:42:46 PM comradelunar: Goddamn snacks.
9:42:51 PM loldamien: my favorite was iraqi-chan.  That one was clever <3
9:42:51 PM daisukexkun: *mudkip paint job*
9:42:55 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i'm in the otakon video T_T
9:43:02 PM loldamien: Me too :D
9:43:08 PM necrolich666: D: I'm not
9:43:09 PM daisukexkun: Thank you Damien
9:43:11 PM thelastmerovin: So's Faux
9:43:14 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i won't say who i am.
9:43:19 PM mikosutoka: shes not in the video she left early
9:43:22 PM mikosutoka: at least thats what i thought
9:43:23 PM comradelunar: Ack. Faux.
9:43:25 PM daisukexkun: I'm not old enough to actually enter to be honest
9:43:27 PM q4tlqbvyhk: cuz this conversation is likely to be seen by the internet... 
9:43:30 PM daisukexkun: in b4 underage b&
9:43:30 PM ldfkufjq: i saw her cosplay
9:43:37 PM ldfkufjq: me too daisuke
9:43:37 PM necrolich666: me neither D:
9:43:39 PM comradelunar: Verdict?
9:43:43 PM thelastmerovin: she's in the video, you can see her leaving for the GUNDAM panel in a wide angle shot
9:43:43 PM q4tlqbvyhk: neither was um
9:43:44 PM q4tlqbvyhk: like 
9:43:48 PM q4tlqbvyhk: maddeth 
9:43:49 PM q4tlqbvyhk: or 
9:43:50 PM ldfkufjq: better cracky than mine
9:43:56 PM comradelunar: oh lawdy.
9:43:57 PM q4tlqbvyhk: alyson 
9:43:59 PM q4tlqbvyhk: or
9:44:03 PM daisukexkun: I believe I asked Icarus this earlier, but what do you think of Faux?
9:44:06 PM q4tlqbvyhk: idk, lots of people got in who were underage b7'd
9:44:18 PM q4tlqbvyhk: you could just take red tape, put it on your wrist, and they'd let you in.
9:44:29 PM daisukexkun: Yeah, that was the way around it
9:44:34 PM ldfkufjq: she's funny 
9:44:34 PM daisukexkun: Also unfortunate for me
9:44:46 PM q4tlqbvyhk: cracky's friend stalks snacks. 
9:44:49 PM daisukexkun: Was that I was nowhere near Otakon
9:44:54 PM q4tlqbvyhk: true story.
9:45:03 PM necrolich666: I stalked snacks
9:45:08 PM necrolich666: but he got all mean D:
9:45:10 PM comradelunar: </3 snacks.
9:45:12 PM mikosutoka: why would anyone want to even be near that grease ball 
9:45:17 PM q4tlqbvyhk: spoilers: snacks is always mean.
9:45:23 PM ldfkufjq: you don't say
9:45:30 PM comradelunar: Snacks looks a bit like a weasel.
9:45:32 PM daisukexkun: Snacks' significant other did not make a good Suiseiseki to be honest.
9:45:39 PM q4tlqbvyhk: that's not his significant other
9:45:41 PM q4tlqbvyhk: that's maddeth.
9:45:44 PM mikosutoka: lia have you ever made a sound clip
9:45:45 PM daisukexkun: Well
9:45:49 PM daisukexkun: Yeah
9:45:49 PM ldfkufjq: yep
9:45:55 PM q4tlqbvyhk: they're friends is all.
9:45:58 PM daisukexkun: Ah
9:46:05 PM mikosutoka: like i dunno i might be asking too much but could we hear your voice like a tiny little saying maybe like a hello
9:46:07 PM mikosutoka: or something
9:46:13 PM q4tlqbvyhk: yeah at one point, there was lots of wonder as to what you sound like
9:46:18 PM daisukexkun: ED and wikichan have failed me again.
9:46:30 PM necrolich666: what do you expect?
9:46:32 PM comradelunar: ED is only good if you're looking for "LOL BRITISH TEETH"
9:46:32 PM q4tlqbvyhk: british accent, etc
9:46:49 PM ldfkufjq: i sound like an english person
9:46:54 PM comradelunar: Regional accent?
9:46:54 PM ldfkufjq: case closed
9:46:56 PM ldfkufjq: no
9:47:03 PM mikosutoka: sorry i asked >_<
9:47:06 PM ldfkufjq: no regional accent
9:47:08 PM comradelunar: Damn. I was hoping for geordie cracky.
9:47:14 PM ldfkufjq: or cockney
9:47:23 PM thelastmerovin: Hey, that juice clip, was it ever longer than the 2 second version?
9:47:31 PM daisukexkun: It was 6 I believe
9:47:39 PM thelastmerovin: someone cut it up
9:47:41 PM necrolich666: I think we should just be thankful she's here?
9:47:46 PM necrolich666: amirite?
9:47:48 PM comradelunar: Seconded.
9:47:50 PM daisukexkun: Yes
9:47:57 PM ldfkufjq: uh i dunno
9:48:01 PM ldfkufjq: i made it for my friend
9:48:07 PM ldfkufjq: then some guy found where i was storing my files
9:48:14 PM loldamien: Lia, would you get a recording of a black englishman.  I refuse to believe they exist.
9:48:16 PM mikosutoka: i am, i dont mean to offend im just curious of nature please do not answer anything miss l you dont want to D:
9:48:23 PM thelastmerovin: ok
9:48:28 PM ldfkufjq: i'm in doubt to their existence myself damien, and i live here
9:48:37 PM necrolich666: xD
9:48:37 PM loldamien: haha
9:48:37 PM ldfkufjq: =P
9:48:40 PM daisukexkun: lol
9:48:45 PM comradelunar: I saw at least 3 black englishmen, and I live in yorkshire, homogeny central.
9:48:53 PM lastxkveqxztoc: If it makes you feel any better, I would have asked the same thing, mikosutoka.
9:48:56 PM ldfkufjq: wow lots of britfags in here o.O
9:48:57 PM mikosutoka: how did you do that, you never go outside i thought
9:49:02 PM thelastmerovin: English- is not a prefix
9:49:04 PM daisukexkun: Ah England, I've always wanted to live there.
9:49:11 PM comradelunar: I passed a church on my nightly stroll, lulz.
9:49:15 PM thelastmerovin: Well, I was born there
9:49:21 PM daisukexkun: I'm an Amerifag, just so you know.
9:49:21 PM thelastmerovin: I miss the motherland
9:49:30 PM necrolich666: AMERIKKKA
9:49:35 PM daisukexkun: Exactly
9:49:37 PM comradelunar: FUCK YEAH, etc.
9:49:46 PM daisukexkun: Except without the KKK, etc.
9:49:50 PM mikosutoka: i swear necro + daisuke = twins seperated at birth
9:49:53 PM daisukexkun: Northeasterner here
9:50:04 PM thelastmerovin: Cracky should visit my lonely islands
9:50:07 PM daisukexkun: What?
9:50:08 PM daisukexkun: HJow?
9:50:08 PM lastxkveqxztoc: Me too.  New Hampshire.
9:50:11 PM ldfkufjq: what islands?
9:50:11 PM daisukexkun: How*
9:50:14 PM thelastmerovin: because nobody else does
9:50:26 PM thelastmerovin: New Zealand
9:50:30 PM comradelunar: Have a natural disaster. You'll have people swarming.
9:50:32 PM thelastmerovin: >_<
9:50:40 PM ldfkufjq: heh
9:50:40 PM mikosutoka: I see what you did thar merovin
9:50:40 PM necrolich666: wutImiss?
9:50:44 PM daisukexkun: Oh yes
9:50:55 PM daisukexkun: And also claims of terrorism
9:50:58 PM daisukexkun: etc
9:51:09 PM comradelunar: Terrorists did tidal wave.
9:51:15 PM daisukexkun: Exactly
9:51:19 PM necrolich666: xD....
9:51:20 PM q4tlqbvyhk: midwest
9:51:21 PM daisukexkun: Speaking of water
9:51:25 PM q4tlqbvyhk: us
9:51:38 PM daisukexkun: Lia, did the flooding near Oxford affect you in anyway?
9:51:45 PM ldfkufjq: i got a bit damp.
9:51:47 PM comradelunar: Northeastern England: WE HAVE SHEEP AND TEXTILE MILLS.
9:51:58 PM necrolich666: awesome
9:52:05 PM ldfkufjq: sounds familiar lunar
9:52:16 PM thelastmerovin: the Transformers sequal has a transforming aircraft carrier causing tidal waves = WIN
9:52:18 PM comradelunar: Ohh-arrr.
9:52:21 PM loldamien: Oh, since there are brits in this chat, does anybody remember a childrens tv show that had two alien "muppets" on it?  I think it was a morning show or something called "The Breakfast Club"??  
9:52:27 PM loldamien: Ring a bell, anyone? D:  
9:52:32 PM ldfkufjq: before my time or something
9:52:32 PM comradelunar: Zig and Zag, or somesuch?
9:52:39 PM ldfkufjq: i never watched much tv though
9:52:47 PM comradelunar: I remember a jelly drink sold by TV muppet things.
9:52:48 PM loldamien: I saw it a loooong time ago when I was in london on vacation D:  
9:52:49 PM q4tlqbvyhk: yeah fuck tv
9:52:50 PM ldfkufjq: my parents think babar the elephant is a violent show
9:52:57 PM necrolich666: :(
9:52:59 PM daisukexkun: Whoa
9:53:01 PM q4tlqbvyhk: fucking, quote.
9:53:09 PM q4tlqbvyhk: that quote
9:53:17 PM q4tlqbvyhk: is actually going to go to Cracky-chan
9:53:18 PM q4tlqbvyhk: ldfkufjq: my parents think babar the elephant is a violent show
9:53:19 PM mikosutoka: qfw
9:53:23 PM daisukexkun: Yes
9:53:26 PM q4tlqbvyhk: she will say that in the book.
9:53:29 PM q4tlqbvyhk: or movie.
9:53:29 PM thelastmerovin: Dr. Who is superior
9:53:30 PM mikosutoka: movie
9:53:31 PM q4tlqbvyhk: version. of all this.
9:53:36 PM daisukexkun: Ah, Dr. Who
9:53:36 PM comradelunar: Dr Who=win.
9:53:47 PM daisukexkun: My brother got into that for a while.
9:53:52 PM daisukexkun: And I kept watching.
9:53:52 PM thelastmerovin: The old series, none of this new faggotry
9:53:52 PM comradelunar: Everyone has a soft spot for Tom baker.
9:53:54 PM daisukexkun: He stopped.
9:54:08 PM necrolich666: never got into it ;_;
9:54:19 PM comradelunar: Once he travelled through time... Now he sells batteries.
9:54:25 PM daisukexkun: Oh yes
9:54:27 PM necrolich666: xD
9:54:33 PM comradelunar: Duracell is SUPERIOR.
9:54:39 PM necrolich666: to what?
9:54:42 PM necrolich666: ..lol
9:54:46 PM comradelunar: All other batteries.
9:54:59 PM necrolich666: I was thinking potatoes
9:55:00 PM loldamien: Huge Duracell fan here.
9:55:10 PM mikosutoka: ... batteries
9:55:14 PM thelastmerovin: Put a group of psudo-nerds and crackyfans into a room together, and look what happens.
9:55:15 PM q4tlqbvyhk: batteries? wth!
9:55:20 PM daisukexkun: Potatoes are yummy.
9:55:22 PM q4tlqbvyhk: let's talk about um
9:55:22 PM q4tlqbvyhk: idk
9:55:24 PM q4tlqbvyhk: music
9:55:30 PM comradelunar: John Entwistle ftw.
9:55:31 PM mikosutoka: what kind of music do you like now lia
9:55:34 PM q4tlqbvyhk: btw, she's going to quietly leave, and we'll all keep talking
9:55:38 PM daisukexkun: I'm a Dir en grey person.
9:55:41 PM ldfkufjq: that's the plan q
9:55:44 PM ldfkufjq: not into DEG
9:55:49 PM necrolich666: mmmm aphex twin
9:55:49 PM daisukexkun: in b4 persicution
9:55:57 PM ldfkufjq: aphex twin is win
9:55:58 PM thelastmerovin: by the way, Silverchair = WIN, I lived next door to their drummer.
9:56:01 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i've been listening to entirely too much Justice and Uffie
9:56:02 PM ldfkufjq: really?
9:56:03 PM q4tlqbvyhk: and that kind of shit.
9:56:16 PM loldamien: Lia do you like Lazytown Music :D?
9:56:22 PM necrolich666: PIRATE
9:56:23 PM daisukexkun: lollazytown
9:56:25 PM comradelunar: Good god. I apparently have old man taste before my 20s. Sad.
9:56:31 PM daisukexkun: Meh
9:56:33 PM q4tlqbvyhk: if so, i'll send you a video of damien singing a lazytown song
9:56:36 PM daisukexkun: It's alright.
9:56:38 PM ldfkufjq: it's a piece of cake to bake a pretty cake...?
9:56:45 PM loldamien: lol
9:56:45 PM mikosutoka: O.O
9:56:46 PM necrolich666: if the way is hazy
9:56:47 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i just gigglesnorted like a homeschool kid.
9:56:50 PM daisukexkun: Do what you want 'cause a pirate is free
9:56:54 PM daisukexkun: You are a pirat
9:56:55 PM daisukexkun: e
9:56:58 PM necrolich666: pirat
9:57:03 PM loldamien: pirat
9:57:03 PM comradelunar: French pirate... Maybe.
9:57:05 PM necrolich666: parrot
9:57:05 PM mikosutoka: do you like boa (the english group from lain theme)
9:57:30 PM ldfkufjq: i used to
9:57:32 PM ldfkufjq: not anymore really
9:57:44 PM mikosutoka: i see.. the new cd does kinda suck
9:58:20 PM comradelunar: Silence. I see electronic tumbleweed.
9:58:23 PM lastxkveqxztoc: I feel kind of left out here.  I don't know any of these bands.
9:58:28 PM daisukexkun: Same here Last
9:58:36 PM comradelunar: Me neither. We can sit int he corner or something like that.
9:58:41 PM daisukexkun: =(
9:58:43 PM necrolich666: lol
9:58:44 PM ldfkufjq: ha.
9:58:52 PM necrolich666: how abouttt...
9:59:10 PM comradelunar: So I herd that young lad Mozart is making a new release soon.
9:59:13 PM necrolich666: indie musik?
9:59:17 PM thelastmerovin: Anyone like trance?
9:59:24 PM necrolich666: :D
9:59:27 PM lastxkveqxztoc: Trance is good, but I don't have much of it.
9:59:29 PM thelastmerovin: I have 120GB of the stuff :/
9:59:31 PM comradelunar: UNTISS UNTISS UNTISS UNTISS
9:59:31 PM daisukexkun: Mero, there's a Source server I go to
9:59:32 PM mikosutoka: trance is lieked
9:59:36 PM ldfkufjq: i like trance.
9:59:38 PM necrolich666: lol @ lunar
9:59:47 PM mikosutoka: yay ;D
9:59:50 PM daisukexkun: There's a plug-in where you can play music during the match
9:59:53 PM thelastmerovin: I'm going to Sensation White next year in Amsterdam :D
9:59:55 PM comradelunar: I don't really know what trance is, give me a break. I listen to stadium rock. D:
9:59:57 PM daisukexkun: And it has a trance channel
10:00:05 PM daisukexkun: Best combination ever
10:00:10 PM thelastmerovin: DI.fm has the best trance channel
10:00:11 PM ldfkufjq: what the fuck is stadium rock?
10:00:13 PM mikosutoka: lia do you listen to any 80s music like joy division or duran duran
10:00:15 PM comradelunar: Think The Who.
10:00:19 PM ldfkufjq: nope miko.
10:00:28 PM comradelunar: Also big hair bands.
10:00:34 PM daisukexkun: Yeah
10:00:38 PM thelastmerovin: THE PROCLAIMERS
10:00:44 PM necrolich666: lol
10:00:53 PM necrolich666: Kraftwerk <#
10:00:55 PM daisukexkun: I actually grew up on that music because of my father.
10:00:56 PM comradelunar: I WOULD WALK FIVE HUNDRED MILES AND I WOULD WALK FIVE HUNDRED MORE
10:01:01 PM loldamien: Lia, whats been going on with these horrible london floods I keep seeing pictures of at yahoo.com D:
10:01:02 PM thelastmerovin: I'm on my way, from misery to happiness tadey! aha aha aha aha
10:01:11 PM daisukexkun: And then I heard Dir en grey's Gauze album
10:01:20 PM daisukexkun: Whoa
10:01:21 PM comradelunar: Build a city by a river, expect the water to rise sometime.
10:01:23 PM lastxkveqxztoc: OH GOD WHAT
10:01:26 PM q4tlqbvyhk: love is over. ;_;
10:01:28 PM necrolich666: ;_;
10:01:29 PM mikosutoka: what did he do
10:01:30 PM thelastmerovin: fail
10:01:32 PM daisukexkun: =(
10:01:32 PM comradelunar: OH SHIT
10:01:38 PM mikosutoka: maybe she accidently closed the window
10:01:41 PM mikosutoka: D:
10:01:41 PM comradelunar: I propose a murder-suicide pact.
10:01:48 PM q4tlqbvyhk: but damien died also
10:01:50 PM lastxkveqxztoc: SHe's still on AIM.
10:01:51 PM daisukexkun: To be honest, I was gonna ask what do to after all this
10:01:56 PM daisukexkun: At the end
10:02:01 PM mikosutoka: who is that
10:02:03 PM ldfkufjq: whoa wut x_x
10:02:06 PM necrolich666: whew...
10:02:06 PM mikosutoka: welcome back !
10:02:06 PM daisukexkun: Kinda like into or something
10:02:07 PM comradelunar: phew.
10:02:08 PM lastxkveqxztoc: Welcome back.
10:02:09 PM ldfkufjq: LOL
10:02:10 PM mikosutoka: wow
10:02:11 PM q4tlqbvyhk: someone set you up the bomb.
10:02:11 PM comradelunar: Aneurysm averted.
10:02:15 PM daisukexkun: Yes
10:02:15 PM ldfkufjq: idk what just happened.
10:02:19 PM daisukexkun: So to speak
10:02:20 PM thelastmerovin: lol Aimpoint, you just missed it
10:02:24 PM comradelunar: Gremlins.
10:02:30 PM loldamien: what the shit
10:02:32 PM ldfkufjq: anyway, @ damien. its a sign of the End Times.
10:02:32 PM daisukexkun: Oh, hello Aimpoint
10:02:37 PM necrolich666: my text is skinny
10:02:39 PM loldamien: D:
10:02:41 PM mikosutoka: you lost weight
10:02:42 PM comradelunar: sammich.
10:02:44 PM kilo1185: aw 
10:02:49 PM kilo1185: fuck that
10:02:53 PM q4tlqbvyhk: how about the dresden dolls, lia
10:03:03 PM ldfkufjq: i used to like them a lot 
10:03:07 PM ldfkufjq: but cant listen to them anymore
10:03:13 PM q4tlqbvyhk: !
10:03:14 PM ldfkufjq: they make me emo
10:03:17 PM kilo1185: sup
10:03:32 PM daisukexkun: Colin Hay actually makes me do that.
10:03:33 PM q4tlqbvyhk: I would describe my opinion of them as exactly the same.
10:03:34 PM comradelunar: Oh god, has anyone thought to try and contact whatbandages?
10:03:39 PM mikosutoka: hes at work
10:03:42 PM mikosutoka: he said no txting
10:03:42 PM q4tlqbvyhk: since i associate it with a very specific time in my life.
10:03:45 PM kilo1185: daisucke my CAL match went 16-11 us fyi
10:03:52 PM daisukexkun: Nicely done
10:03:54 PM kilo1185: daisuke*
10:03:55 PM ldfkufjq: i already talked to wb anyway
10:04:01 PM q4tlqbvyhk: etc, etc.
10:04:01 PM comradelunar: o lawd.
10:04:10 PM mikosutoka: lunar i couldnt tell you nothing
10:04:14 PM mikosutoka: cause i thought you'd asplode
10:04:19 PM comradelunar: I would, lolz.
10:04:23 PM ldfkufjq: icarus gave me his sn for some reason, not sure what he wished to achieve 
10:04:31 PM daisukexkun: Yeah
10:04:33 PM comradelunar: Icarus is a pleasant fellow.
10:04:40 PM daisukexkun: I was talking to him earlier and yesterday
10:04:47 PM mikosutoka: what's icarus sn
10:04:48 PM daisukexkun: Somewhat of an odd fellow
10:04:53 PM loldamien: Lia, even though its only been a little over a month- how do you feel about Gordon Brown as the Prime Minister?
10:04:55 PM daisukexkun: He's not on
10:04:58 PM comradelunar: The only time I talked to him he gave me a jab in the back.
10:05:01 PM q4tlqbvyhk: someone tell me who this icarus is, since i have no clue
10:05:07 PM ldfkufjq: i couldn't care less, politicslol.
10:05:11 PM loldamien: lol
10:05:12 PM comradelunar: Shockhorror.
10:05:14 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:05:22 PM comradelunar: Politics is srs bsns.
10:05:29 PM ldfkufjq: also, if by "pleasant" you mean "crazy asshole" then yes.
10:05:49 PM comradelunar: He tried to get wb's irl information off me, lulz.
10:05:55 PM mikosutoka: saguine = icarus
10:05:55 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:05:58 PM q4tlqbvyhk: that description is good enough for me.
10:05:58 PM necrolich666: weird
10:06:15 PM necrolich666: Ew LHP...
10:06:18 PM ldfkufjq: he msged me this morning to tell me the jig was up and that he'd found out that it was me running bounceme all along.
10:06:24 PM ldfkufjq: which came as a rather big surprise
10:06:24 PM mikosutoka: LOL
10:06:25 PM comradelunar: Haha, oh wow.
10:06:29 PM ldfkufjq: also i'm apparently dating whatbandages
10:06:32 PM comradelunar: XD
10:06:37 PM mikosutoka: wb must have blushed
10:06:37 PM comradelunar: Better tell him.
10:06:38 PM ldfkufjq: and he's leaking shit to the website and playing you all
10:06:43 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:06:45 PM mikosutoka: he already knows
10:06:46 PM comradelunar: I can hear him fapping.
10:06:51 PM q4tlqbvyhk: that makes so much sense now.
10:06:52 PM necrolich666: ew
10:06:55 PM daisukexkun: Yes
10:06:56 PM ldfkufjq: and the admin is a dude named gary who is his bff
10:07:14 PM necrolich666: bffe lol
10:07:23 PM ldfkufjq: he may be right about the admin, idk. the other stuff is news to me.
10:07:23 PM comradelunar: idk, my bff gary
10:07:25 PM ldfkufjq: hahaha
10:07:28 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:07:39 PM necrolich666: people are strange
10:07:44 PM comradelunar: when you're a stranger.
10:07:45 PM daisukexkun: Yes
10:08:10 PM daisukexkun: Well, my buzz has completely dissapated
10:08:16 PM daisukexkun: Since I can breathe normally now.
10:08:20 PM q4tlqbvyhk: the doors are my favorite band to mock. 
10:08:26 PM necrolich666: whys that ;_;
10:08:31 PM comradelunar: You mock the doors? Oh, harsh.
10:08:41 PM necrolich666: I painted a picture of Jim morrison
10:08:42 PM comradelunar: Who could mock a pretentious drug-addled hippie?
10:08:43 PM necrolich666: it sucks
10:09:10 PM daisukexkun: I'm neutral towards The Doors
10:09:24 PM comradelunar: I used to spend a lot of time singing along to them.
10:09:33 PM necrolich666: I have all their vinyls, or a good chunk
10:09:52 PM q4tlqbvyhk: oh boy. in before doors circlejerk.
10:09:53 PM daisukexkun: Lunar, that's me with the older Dir en grey songs.
10:09:59 PM necrolich666: :(
10:10:02 PM mikosutoka: ._.
10:10:09 PM necrolich666: K enough about the doors
10:10:09 PM comradelunar: WEIRD SCENES INSIDE THE GOLDMINE
10:10:16 PM ldfkufjq: o_O
10:10:22 PM ldfkufjq: the doors are okay.
10:10:28 PM comradelunar: The end.
10:10:38 PM comradelunar: 12 minutes of droning.
10:10:47 PM thelastmerovin: A Perfect Circle > All
10:10:50 PM q4tlqbvyhk: what amuses me is the mob of people who think doors lyrics are deep
10:10:53 PM thelastmerovin: That is all
10:10:54 PM necrolich666: I cut my nails for the first time in a while
10:11:02 PM daisukexkun: Oh lord
10:11:05 PM necrolich666: about a week ago
10:11:05 PM comradelunar: A Quick One>all.
10:11:08 PM daisukexkun: A Perfect Circle
10:11:11 PM comradelunar: Nails? Mmm. Nails.
10:11:18 PM mikosutoka: im eating away my finger tips
10:11:24 PM necrolich666: I cut them again yesterday after dnd
10:11:26 PM thelastmerovin: lol
10:11:36 PM necrolich666: I'm trying to keep them short again
10:11:39 PM comradelunar: I put on my robe and wizard hat.
10:11:43 PM mikosutoka: lol XD
10:11:45 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:11:49 PM necrolich666: stfu :(
10:11:51 PM necrolich666: lol
10:12:11 PM comradelunar: Well this is a little odd.
10:12:16 PM daisukexkun: ?
10:12:21 PM thelastmerovin: I play the piano so I'm always cutting mine :(
10:12:38 PM necrolich666: I wanted to start playing "Piano" but meh
10:12:43 PM comradelunar: I play the bass so they get ripped off eventually.
10:12:48 PM necrolich666: I'm a lazy good for nothing
10:12:58 PM daisukexkun: I've been raised on Clarinet
10:13:04 PM daisukexkun: My father played
10:13:07 PM mikosutoka: lia do you like the violin
10:13:17 PM kilo1185: aw cheer up
10:13:17 PM comradelunar: I think she's gone. We may have killed her with this intense chat.
10:13:18 PM daisukexkun: And the day I was born, he bought a Clarinet and played for me.
10:13:28 PM ldfkufjq: i used to play the violin
10:13:31 PM mikosutoka: really??
10:13:32 PM mikosutoka: :O
10:13:34 PM ldfkufjq: yeah but
10:13:37 PM ldfkufjq: not because i wanted to
10:13:38 PM ldfkufjq: when i was a kid
10:13:42 PM ldfkufjq: my mom made me go to lessons
10:13:42 PM daisukexkun: I actually still have that clarinet
10:13:46 PM ldfkufjq: i hated it >_>
10:13:48 PM necrolich666: i don't think anyone wants to
10:13:49 PM daisukexkun: Ahh
10:13:55 PM mikosutoka: :( yeah i tried to play
10:13:56 PM mikosutoka: but I sucked
10:13:57 PM necrolich666: It's a childhood experience
10:13:58 PM mikosutoka: so I quit
10:14:07 PM comradelunar: Lord, most kids just get a recorder pressed on them.
10:14:17 PM necrolich666: we had to play that in school
10:14:18 PM daisukexkun: I grew up with music
10:14:20 PM necrolich666: it sucked
10:14:22 PM necrolich666: Lucky
10:14:26 PM daisukexkun: I enjoyed playing ever since
10:14:28 PM necrolich666: I'd give my arm for that
10:14:29 PM kilo1185: forced?
10:14:37 PM daisukexkun: Nope
10:14:39 PM kilo1185: i was forced to play the pian when i was 6
10:14:43 PM kilo1185: sad stuff
10:14:52 PM daisukexkun: My father and I bonded because of it.
10:14:54 PM q4tlqbvyhk: Lia, how would you describe your religion 
10:15:01 PM thelastmerovin: Same with me, I hated piano lessions with a fury, but I can appreciate it now now. When I'm feeling like shit I go along to an abandoned cathedral down the road and play my heart out.
10:15:03 PM comradelunar: I feel left out. I have no tales of childhood musical slavery.
10:15:22 PM daisukexkun: You mean us calling her a goddess and whatnot q?
10:15:27 PM kilo1185: 8 PM
10:15:32 PM kilo1185: i got all the time in teh world
10:15:34 PM loldamien: My mom tried to get me to do drum lessons.  Ended quickly as I can't keep a steady beat, lol
10:15:40 PM q4tlqbvyhk: no i meant how would she, herself, describe  her own belief structure
10:15:43 PM daisukexkun: Ah
10:15:44 PM ldfkufjq: neutral
10:15:44 PM q4tlqbvyhk: er whatever.
10:15:45 PM necrolich666: I want to be a drummer
10:15:53 PM necrolich666: I want do something other then draw
10:15:58 PM daisukexkun: OP here, disreguard that. I suck cocks
10:16:07 PM necrolich666: O.o
10:16:15 PM mikosutoka: Lia do you ever get cool dreams
10:16:16 PM kilo1185: only thing that i listen to is trance
10:16:18 PM comradelunar: lol, what.
10:16:20 PM mikosutoka: like do you still try to lucid dreams
10:16:54 PM necrolich666: *cricket*
10:16:56 PM ldfkufjq: no, i dont dream much these days
10:17:04 PM daisukexkun: Due to the insomia?
10:17:06 PM loldamien: that sucks
10:17:08 PM kilo1185: you dont want any
10:17:16 PM thelastmerovin: lucid dreaming... wow.
10:17:17 PM daisukexkun: Jeez, I can't type right today
10:17:21 PM daisukexkun: well*
10:17:31 PM necrolich666: I've only been dreaming when I sleep
10:17:34 PM ldfkufjq: i just suck at it
10:17:49 PM daisukexkun: At least you don't have cryptic ones
10:17:56 PM daisukexkun: Worst things ever
10:18:08 PM kilo1185: chickens are nice
10:18:16 PM ldfkufjq: i mainly have bad ones
10:18:21 PM necrolich666: ;_;
10:18:22 PM daisukexkun: =(
10:18:24 PM mikosutoka: :(
10:18:25 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i have fucking amazing lucid dreams where i fly around like superman and construct cities with my mind.
10:18:27 PM daisukexkun: I'm sorry to hear that.
10:18:34 PM ldfkufjq: eh
10:18:43 PM necrolich666: Lucid dreaming is over rated
10:18:44 PM thelastmerovin: lol
10:18:44 PM comradelunar: Ever read The Star Fraction? I used to dream  about living in that book. Weird stuff.
10:18:45 PM loldamien: I have those too, q4 :D!
10:18:47 PM necrolich666: I need my book back
10:18:50 PM q4tlqbvyhk: bad dreams about random 4chan people obsessing over her
10:19:12 PM ldfkufjq: @ lunar no and @ q tends to be worse than that
10:19:12 PM q4tlqbvyhk: then you wake up to find that it's real ;_;
10:19:15 PM ldfkufjq: hahahaa
10:19:20 PM kilo1185: well im lagging so all my messages are 5 seconds late
10:19:22 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:19:31 PM thelastmerovin: fuckin 4chananoids
10:19:35 PM comradelunar: You're getting the CNN live feed, Kilo.
10:19:40 PM comradelunar: crap.
10:19:44 PM thelastmerovin: they are everywhere
10:19:54 PM mikosutoka: when you least expect them
10:19:55 PM thelastmerovin: I saw a 'longcat' grafitti yesterday
10:19:55 PM ldfkufjq: hm?
10:19:58 PM ldfkufjq: omg
10:20:02 PM thelastmerovin: I was like WOAH
10:20:04 PM thelastmerovin: I was like WOAH
10:20:04 PM ldfkufjq: longcat?
10:20:10 PM comradelunar: he's long.
10:20:14 PM mikosutoka: very looooong
10:20:15 PM thelastmerovin: yeah :p
10:20:16 PM ldfkufjq: in MY city?
10:20:27 PM comradelunar: more likely than you'd think.
10:20:38 PM daisukexkun: Took the words right out of my mouth Lunar
10:20:50 PM loldamien: did you get a picture :O?
10:20:55 PM comradelunar: Fastest memes in the west.
10:21:07 PM thelastmerovin: I'm out of film
10:21:11 PM q4tlqbvyhk: hi kilo
10:21:15 PM thelastmerovin: I don't use digital
10:21:21 PM thelastmerovin: 35mm ftw
10:21:23 PM kilo1185: hello 
10:21:27 PM kilo1185: i lagged out
10:21:30 PM kilo1185: fucking internet
10:21:41 PM necrolich666: I wish I had a camera
10:21:49 PM necrolich666: I had a good picture idea the other day
10:21:50 PM daisukexkun: I have one, but it's crap.
10:21:56 PM daisukexkun: I need something better.
10:22:03 PM necrolich666: It would've had to of been a good res though
10:22:04 PM comradelunar: I have one, and it turned me into a myspace whore.
10:22:09 PM loldamien: Lol, one of my artmajorfriends swears by real cameras instead of digital.  He's shown me comparisons... you two are right.
10:22:10 PM daisukexkun: Meh
10:22:14 PM kilo1185: lol
10:22:16 PM ldfkufjq: myspace sucks 
10:22:20 PM necrolich666: ;_;
10:22:22 PM mikosutoka: im glad you think that :)
10:22:32 PM thelastmerovin: :)
10:22:36 PM comradelunar: Oh but I CRAVE APPROVAL. Ahem.
10:22:37 PM daisukexkun: I block people like wildfire on that site.
10:23:04 PM ldfkufjq: lunar, just put on some makeup and cat ears and go to 4chan for that....
10:23:05 PM comradelunar: Out of 7 freidns on that site, two are most likely sex offenders.
10:23:17 PM kilo1185: i dont use myspace at all, lol myspace
10:23:19 PM mikosutoka: i got lunar's cracky pics :3
10:23:20 PM necrolich666: lol @ lia
10:23:24 PM comradelunar: oh lawd
10:23:27 PM daisukexkun: I mainly have my friends from school on that site.
10:23:30 PM daisukexkun: That's it.
10:23:33 PM comradelunar: say no more or I'll use your POWERWORD: IRL NAME.
10:23:46 PM mikosutoka: ._. pssht
10:23:57 PM kilo1185: tom?
10:24:01 PM comradelunar: Most embarassing picture ever, taken when I QUITE THE INTERNETS FOREVER.
10:24:05 PM daisukexkun: I don't think anyone actually know my RL name
10:24:05 PM q4tlqbvyhk: starts with an E
10:24:08 PM comradelunar: eh, QUIT.
10:24:09 PM daisukexkun: What
10:24:18 PM q4tlqbvyhk: :P
10:24:20 PM daisukexkun: q, what do you know?
10:24:21 PM daisukexkun: >_>
10:24:37 PM necrolich666: starts with P
10:24:38 PM loldamien: Everyone knows my irl name ._.
10:24:40 PM ldfkufjq: blackmail off
10:24:45 PM necrolich666: its penis monger ok?
10:24:47 PM mikosutoka: /blackmail 
10:24:47 PM thelastmerovin: Hahaha, stalking the stalkers.
10:24:54 PM ldfkufjq: i know where suede lives.
10:25:01 PM comradelunar: A fair industrial city.
10:25:03 PM mikosutoka: everyone knows that though D:
10:25:06 PM necrolich666: lol
10:25:10 PM daisukexkun: Yes
10:25:11 PM lastxkveqxztoc: They do?
10:25:11 PM necrolich666: I son't ;_;
10:25:16 PM necrolich666: *d
10:25:24 PM comradelunar: I'd give out my home adress just to see what'd happen.
10:25:27 PM kilo1185: i know suedes name :O
10:25:40 PM comradelunar: 'suede S. Suederson'.
10:25:40 PM q4tlqbvyhk: I KNOW MY OWN NAME
10:25:43 PM necrolich666: I know my name :D
10:25:47 PM ldfkufjq: well aren't you special
10:25:47 PM necrolich666: damnit
10:25:51 PM q4tlqbvyhk: hey 
10:25:54 PM q4tlqbvyhk: damnit.
10:25:58 PM necrolich666: beat me to it
10:26:02 PM q4tlqbvyhk: bea
10:26:06 PM q4tlqbvyhk: fuck
10:26:06 PM necrolich666: tch?
10:26:07 PM thelastmerovin: ...
10:26:08 PM thelastmerovin: Everyone knows that too...
10:26:12 PM necrolich666: me?
10:26:22 PM comradelunar: And lo, the conversation fell into confusion.
10:26:26 PM thelastmerovin: holy fuck lagg. aimexpress ftl
10:26:27 PM daisukexkun: Oh yes
10:26:34 PM mikosutoka: sigh ._.
10:26:35 PM q4tlqbvyhk: everything lags 
10:27:02 PM mikosutoka: i was almost half expecting the world to end now
10:27:06 PM mikosutoka: like a metor comes down
10:27:12 PM necrolich666: Lia where did you get the name Scarecrowmaiden?
10:27:13 PM comradelunar: Send me my embarassing pictures plz M.
10:27:26 PM daisukexkun: I'm actually expecting to wake up.
10:27:28 PM ldfkufjq: from a game
10:27:30 PM daisukexkun: To be honest
10:27:38 PM necrolich666: I lost the game :(
10:27:43 PM daisukexkun: Shit
10:27:46 PM lastxkveqxztoc: Damn you, necro.
10:27:47 PM daisukexkun: I lost
10:27:47 PM q4tlqbvyhk: ijltg
10:27:51 PM ldfkufjq: heh
10:27:57 PM kilo1185: well i won the game
10:28:05 PM mikosutoka: who are you ._.
10:28:07 PM comradelunar: oh goddamn you.
10:28:12 PM necrolich666: stfu
10:28:13 PM lastxkveqxztoc: You can't win the game.  it's in the rules.
10:28:17 PM necrolich666: kilo
10:28:26 PM daisukexkun: Yes
10:28:29 PM q4tlqbvyhk: winning is whenever you're nto thinking of it
10:28:40 PM lastxkveqxztoc: That's not losing.
10:28:44 PM daisukexkun: Technically, that's playing the game
10:28:47 PM daisukexkun: Shit
10:28:48 PM daisukexkun: I lost
10:28:51 PM q4tlqbvyhk: oktru
10:28:52 PM comradelunar: YYou win if you die not thinking of it.
10:28:53 PM ldfkufjq: Game plays you.
10:28:56 PM necrolich666: Who here keeps a diary?
10:29:02 PM comradelunar: Me, kinda.
10:29:08 PM daisukexkun: Ahhhhhhhhhhh Motherland
10:29:17 PM q4tlqbvyhk: my diary is the fact that i log every chat i ever have online.
10:29:20 PM q4tlqbvyhk: so it's all searchable.
10:29:22 PM q4tlqbvyhk: it is my diary 
10:29:24 PM thelastmerovin: I keep a private journal
10:29:25 PM kilo1185: oh shit son
10:29:28 PM kilo1185: fuck
10:29:31 PM kilo1185: i lost on lvl 2
10:29:33 PM loldamien: D:  Now I lost the game, thanks guys~
10:29:36 PM thelastmerovin: Note; in a BOOK, not online.
10:29:43 PM daisukexkun: Enought about the game.
10:29:48 PM mikosutoka: if i could write on paper i would merovin
10:29:56 PM comradelunar: I downloaded an enigma machine sim for the lulz, and now write stuff down with that.
10:29:58 PM daisukexkun: I used to
10:30:00 PM kilo1185: same here
10:30:13 PM kilo1185: i only log my xfire convos though
10:30:36 PM daisukexkun: Whoa
10:30:38 PM daisukexkun: I'm crashing
10:30:40 PM necrolich666: Lol I keep a diary of all the girls I sued to like...
10:30:47 PM necrolich666: *used
10:30:55 PM daisukexkun: Ahh, my head hurts
10:30:57 PM comradelunar: I only log chats I could use for blackmail purposes. Maybe.
10:31:03 PM daisukexkun: /b/, does this rule?
10:31:13 PM necrolich666: I log chats that I win an arguement over
10:31:24 PM kilo1185: ???
10:31:27 PM mikosutoka: http://cracky.bounceme.net/cracky/kareha.pl/1186366218/
10:31:28 PM daisukexkun: This site logs everything except chats
10:31:47 PM necrolich666: That's cruel XD
10:31:49 PM comradelunar: lollolol
10:31:52 PM mikosutoka: lol XDD
10:31:53 PM daisukexkun: Yep
10:32:03 PM ldfkufjq: omg wut
10:32:10 PM comradelunar: in that thread the final humiliation of Lunarsandwich.
10:32:13 PM comradelunar: :-D
10:32:18 PM mikosutoka: i didnt post tempura
10:32:18 PM mikosutoka: though
10:32:20 PM mikosutoka: :3
10:32:21 PM ldfkufjq: he's cute
10:32:59 PM thelastmerovin: Ahaha
10:33:03 PM kilo1185: wow
10:33:09 PM comradelunar: I'm hardcore. lolz
10:33:13 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:33:16 PM necrolich666: I've been wearing my warlock shirt for 3 days
10:33:17 PM kilo1185: someone made a counter strike source map with cracky picutres
10:33:19 PM thelastmerovin: Lunar won the game
10:33:20 PM necrolich666: I'm hardcore XD
10:33:22 PM kilo1185: looks gay
10:33:29 PM mikosutoka: a gay is fine too
10:33:35 PM daisukexkun: a lunar is fine too
10:33:44 PM ldfkufjq: my boyfriend plays cs, it would be pretty funny if he say cracky tags online.
10:33:47 PM ldfkufjq: saw*
10:33:56 PM mikosutoka: *boom headshot*
10:34:03 PM necrolich666: owch
10:34:05 PM mikosutoka: x_x
10:34:09 PM daisukexkun: Y'know, I actually know that guy
10:34:17 PM necrolich666: what guy?
10:34:35 PM daisukexkun: See: Miko's reply
10:34:50 PM necrolich666: k
10:35:02 PM daisukexkun: He was a regular on a clan forum my brother's friend is a mod at.
10:35:04 PM q4tlqbvyhk: do you play video games, lia?
10:35:10 PM comradelunar: Faux is wanting to get into the chat, btw.
10:35:11 PM daisukexkun: After the video was made public, he stopped.
10:35:15 PM necrolich666: she plays runescape
10:35:18 PM daisukexkun: He comes to the server from time to time.
10:35:20 PM necrolich666: it's obvious
10:35:29 PM ldfkufjq: i do q
10:35:31 PM kilo1185: that guy
10:35:38 PM comradelunar: how do i invited people.
10:35:56 PM thelastmerovin: give me her s/n and I will
10:35:58 PM daisukexkun: Actually, post her SN and I'll invite
10:36:00 PM daisukexkun: damn
10:36:02 PM daisukexkun: beat me to it.
10:36:17 PM mikosutoka: ._. *growl*
10:36:22 PM daisukexkun: ?
10:36:27 PM comradelunar: lol, seconded.
10:36:32 PM daisukexkun: Not a fan of faux?
10:36:43 PM kilo1185: i have a ss of me knifing someone with the name Cracky-chan...
10:36:51 PM daisukexkun: Oh lord
10:36:57 PM kilo1185: cant find it in a folder with 241 files
10:37:09 PM necrolich666: :(
10:37:13 PM mikosutoka: use search function
10:37:22 PM ldfkufjq: knifing? me? @_@
10:37:28 PM necrolich666: nuuuuuuu
10:37:34 PM comradelunar: enjoy ur stabbing.
10:37:38 PM thelastmerovin: >_<
10:37:45 PM mikosutoka: -10 hp
10:37:54 PM necrolich666: psh he crited
10:37:58 PM necrolich666: *crit'd
10:38:09 PM comradelunar: I think I already did the robe and wizard hat thing.
10:38:11 PM daisukexkun: In the back using right click
10:38:14 PM necrolich666: daggers are x2
10:38:16 PM daisukexkun: Yes you did actually.
10:38:24 PM necrolich666: yeah
10:38:29 PM daisukexkun: *cast Mark*
10:38:32 PM comradelunar: A second time would be too much.
10:38:40 PM daisukexkun: Why did I just tyype that?
10:38:45 PM necrolich666: i cast magik missle at the darkness
10:38:46 PM daisukexkun: I'm not playing Morrowin
10:38:46 PM ldfkufjq: i cast magic missile?
10:38:49 PM ldfkufjq: beat me
10:38:52 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:38:55 PM necrolich666: lol
10:39:02 PM comradelunar: You are eaten by a grue.
10:39:06 PM necrolich666: :(
10:39:08 PM thelastmerovin: Lunar, does faux want in the chat or not?
10:39:11 PM necrolich666: I is not grue
10:39:15 PM necrolich666: I is a boy
10:39:17 PM comradelunar: Yes, she does.
10:39:20 PM daisukexkun: Stand up. You were dreaming
10:39:21 PM q4tlqbvyhk: you type /invite Faux
10:39:24 PM q4tlqbvyhk: then she's in
10:39:24 PM daisukexkun: What's your name?
10:39:25 PM mikosutoka: im doing it
10:39:36 PM thelastmerovin: IM me her screen name
10:39:43 PM comradelunar: She probably posted a throwaway on bounceme.
10:39:52 PM mikosutoka: invited.
10:40:08 PM daisukexkun: Wait fot it.
10:40:09 PM daisukexkun: for*
10:40:13 PM necrolich666: fot
10:40:19 PM comradelunar: zoq-fot-piq
10:40:20 PM thelastmerovin: fail
10:40:22 PM daisukexkun: I'm not typing well today
10:40:23 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:40:30 PM necrolich666: I think I did that to you earlier
10:40:36 PM comradelunar: pirat
10:40:42 PM daisukexkun: Morrowin
10:41:02 PM mikosutoka: there she goes
10:41:02 PM necrolich666: aw didn't catch morrowin
10:41:03 PM ldfkufjq: oblivion is cool
10:41:08 PM ldfkufjq: hi 2 u
10:41:13 PM comradelunar: Oh, god. Oblivion.
10:41:13 PM necrolich666: my friend plays it too much
10:41:16 PM daisukexkun: Hello there
10:41:19 PM necrolich666: hai
10:41:19 PM redskiesofyou: hi
10:41:26 PM comradelunar: I would play it but apparently you need a computer that can run things properly.
10:41:33 PM daisukexkun: I wish I had a rig good enough for Oblivion
10:41:37 PM ldfkufjq: yeah, my computer crashes whenever i alt tab oblivion
10:41:38 PM daisukexkun: Or a 360
10:41:41 PM ldfkufjq: or just when it feels like it -_-
10:41:45 PM daisukexkun: a 360 is fine too
10:41:46 PM necrolich666: he has a 360
10:41:48 PM necrolich666: ew
10:41:52 PM comradelunar: I got the collector's edition, got all revved up... And it ran like treacle.
10:42:01 PM comradelunar: At least I got that stupid coin.
10:42:02 PM necrolich666: loli haet 360
10:42:02 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i played morrowind 
10:42:05 PM q4tlqbvyhk: a lot.
10:42:11 PM daisukexkun: You and me both q
10:42:15 PM comradelunar: I lost half my life to that.
10:42:20 PM necrolich666: Morrowind lagged to hell
10:42:21 PM q4tlqbvyhk: same.
10:42:22 PM comradelunar: Well, mnaybe less. Still, awesome game.
10:42:27 PM daisukexkun: I raised enough money to make one spell
10:42:29 PM necrolich666: Now.. DIABLO
10:42:31 PM daisukexkun: That ate up all my mp
10:42:36 PM necrolich666: That's where teh stuff is
10:42:45 PM ldfkufjq: i never played diablo >_<
10:42:45 PM daisukexkun: it was a combo of paralyze and fireball
10:42:48 PM daisukexkun: All maxed our
10:42:50 PM daisukexkun: out*
10:42:55 PM ldfkufjq: expensive daisuke
10:42:56 PM q4tlqbvyhk: hmm. maybe there was some secret code in morrowind that programmed all of us, leading us all up to this conversation. 
10:42:58 PM comradelunar: Sixth House Mod. Epic mod. Better than the default ending.
10:42:59 PM daisukexkun: Oh yes
10:43:16 PM daisukexkun: I still need to download that.
10:43:23 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i think we could convince icarus of this 
10:43:32 PM comradelunar: I love being one of those elephant guys.
10:43:32 PM necrolich666: theres no necromancy in morrowind or Oblvion how lame
10:43:34 PM daisukexkun: After buying that spell, I was left with 2 drakes
10:43:44 PM comradelunar: Oblivion has that staff.
10:43:51 PM necrolich666: woopty doo..
10:43:52 PM ldfkufjq: oblivion has summoning undead and crap
10:44:12 PM necrolich666: I hate that staff... It doesn't suffice
10:44:16 PM comradelunar: It's a shame oblivion generic'd everything up.
10:44:17 PM necrolich666: and is hard to get  :(
10:44:24 PM comradelunar: Zombies instead of bonewalkers? Pffft.
10:44:25 PM kilo1185: hey, who here is running windows vista?
10:44:32 PM daisukexkun: I wish
10:44:35 PM necrolich666: ditto
10:44:35 PM ldfkufjq: hahahaha
10:44:36 PM redskiesofyou: +back with milk+
10:44:39 PM ldfkufjq: vista.
10:44:40 PM necrolich666: who want's shadowrun?
10:44:40 PM redskiesofyou: vista blows
10:44:41 PM ldfkufjq: no.
10:44:42 PM daisukexkun: Because then I could actually run Source well
10:44:47 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i run mac osx, ubuntu feisty fawn, and xp
10:44:49 PM redskiesofyou: i have to run it at work, its awful
10:45:00 PM ldfkufjq: where do you work faux?
10:45:03 PM daisukexkun: Sadly, I'm stuck with a Dell that has no AGP slot
10:45:12 PM ldfkufjq: also, you're not dating the mudkip guy are you?
10:45:22 PM redskiesofyou: hahaha i wish
10:45:24 PM necrolich666: my friend is a total dumbass and got Suse and now he can't access the internet
10:45:27 PM redskiesofyou: i work at a venue
10:45:34 PM ldfkufjq: ah
10:45:36 PM redskiesofyou: so i help put on local rock shows and run an interwebs
10:45:38 PM q4tlqbvyhk: the store in the mall?
10:45:41 PM daisukexkun: Nice
10:45:41 PM q4tlqbvyhk: oh ok
10:46:00 PM thelastmerovin: lol @ the mudkip guy
10:46:06 PM daisukexkun: Oh man
10:46:12 PM redskiesofyou: basicly i keep their site running, music video database, and take photos at concerts
10:46:19 PM necrolich666: what happened to miko?
10:46:25 PM comradelunar: ?
10:46:26 PM daisukexkun: I saw a pic of him and I immediatly went O_o
10:46:26 PM ldfkufjq: maybe he fell asleep.
10:46:35 PM redskiesofyou: ?
10:46:36 PM kilo1185: none of you should be running vista
10:46:36 PM thelastmerovin: she..
10:46:40 PM ldfkufjq: ah
10:46:48 PM mikosutoka: ?
10:46:49 PM comradelunar: Off grinding her teeth, I think.
10:46:49 PM kilo1185: and source = best game engine
10:46:51 PM mikosutoka: ._.;
10:47:03 PM daisukexkun: Ah, I love source but I hate my rig
10:47:08 PM necrolich666: I grind my teeth when I sleep
10:47:09 PM redskiesofyou: im distracted between here and #/m/
10:47:30 PM thelastmerovin: fuck I'd love to see all you people in a room together
10:47:30 PM kilo1185: you run the interwebs?
10:47:42 PM thelastmerovin: That would be the source of some epic lulz
10:47:42 PM mikosutoka: in a ROOM together, this is a room
10:47:44 PM daisukexkun: Mero, I'd be the shortest one
10:47:45 PM comradelunar: Liar. Faux is not AL Gore.
10:47:47 PM ldfkufjq: that would be pretty entertaining mero
10:47:49 PM daisukexkun: Telling you now.
10:47:54 PM kilo1185: do you not know that the interwebz are a series of tubes and that its not a big truck?
10:47:59 PM redskiesofyou: i told my boss that
10:48:00 PM necrolich666: IRL?
10:48:02 PM daisukexkun: And more than likely the youngest
10:48:03 PM redskiesofyou: when our net shut off
10:48:05 PM redskiesofyou: yep
10:48:06 PM mikosutoka: party in the TRUCK
10:48:06 PM thelastmerovin: No, it's a yellow van
10:48:12 PM daisukexkun: oh lord
10:48:13 PM comradelunar: BOOM
10:48:20 PM redskiesofyou: he was like "whu? sorry i got distracted thinking about big titties"
10:48:24 PM redskiesofyou: hes realllly weird
10:48:28 PM daisukexkun: Wow
10:48:29 PM ldfkufjq: natural reaction
10:48:29 PM comradelunar: Inevitable collapse into a meme singularity.
10:48:32 PM lastxkveqxztoc: in b4 hackers on steroids
10:48:33 PM necrolich666: Ew
10:48:43 PM ldfkufjq: internet hate machine
10:48:44 PM necrolich666: Wow
10:48:44 PM mikosutoka: http://youtube.com/watch?v=KP09qcVW4dI
10:48:47 PM thelastmerovin: Yes Necro, there is something out there otherwise known as the 'real world'
10:48:51 PM comradelunar: Liar.
10:48:51 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i propose crackycon 
10:48:54 PM necrolich666: :(
10:48:57 PM daisukexkun: Oh lord no
10:48:58 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:49:01 PM mikosutoka: Oh dear god NO
10:49:03 PM redskiesofyou: where i love is nothing but /b/tards and camwhores, you can understand the explosion that caused here
10:49:04 PM ldfkufjq: x_X
10:49:06 PM redskiesofyou: live*
10:49:07 PM redskiesofyou: hah
10:49:07 PM kilo1185: party van?
10:49:09 PM q4tlqbvyhk: hahahahaha
10:49:11 PM necrolich666: I propose we all pitch in for money for a plane ticket for cracky at otakon next year
10:49:15 PM necrolich666: :D
10:49:16 PM q4tlqbvyhk: no
10:49:18 PM q4tlqbvyhk: she would need
10:49:20 PM q4tlqbvyhk: bodyguards.
10:49:22 PM daisukexkun: Ohhh lord no
10:49:22 PM thelastmerovin: NO
10:49:24 PM redskiesofyou: one of my friends is under house arrest cuz he got partyvanned due to 4chan
10:49:24 PM necrolich666: Just kidding..
10:49:25 PM q4tlqbvyhk: and none of us are fit.
10:49:25 PM necrolich666: :(
10:49:26 PM mikosutoka: no a SHARK TANK PROTECTOR
10:49:26 PM ldfkufjq: hahahahaa
10:49:29 PM kilo1185: fuck fox11
10:49:34 PM necrolich666: lol
10:49:35 PM q4tlqbvyhk: yeah. 
10:49:36 PM redskiesofyou: pope-mobile
10:49:36 PM ldfkufjq: tazer.
10:49:38 PM q4tlqbvyhk: shark tank protector 
10:49:39 PM daisukexkun: Sharks with lazer beams
10:49:45 PM mikosutoka: Lol
10:49:45 PM comradelunar: Curtains and a dog.
10:49:49 PM thelastmerovin: Optimus Prime
10:49:51 PM daisukexkun: Oh yes
10:49:54 PM daisukexkun: That solves everything
10:49:57 PM q4tlqbvyhk: do you have a ds, lia?
10:50:02 PM comradelunar: +phone tracker system.
10:50:05 PM daisukexkun: Pogeymanz
10:50:05 PM mikosutoka: lets play some mario kart
10:50:05 PM kilo1185: she will get shot
10:50:07 PM redskiesofyou:  like... padme & her mass of handmaidens. we need more cracky-likes
10:50:12 PM ldfkufjq: no i don't q
10:50:17 PM daisukexkun: Ah, I wish I still had Mario Kart
10:50:17 PM q4tlqbvyhk: T_T
10:50:26 PM q4tlqbvyhk: no mario kart with cracky-chan 
10:50:26 PM ldfkufjq: lunar can be my first handmaiden
10:50:28 PM q4tlqbvyhk: love is over.
10:50:29 PM necrolich666: I wish I had moneh
10:50:31 PM comradelunar: I've done my MANLY MAN part for the cause. Ahem.
10:50:33 PM kilo1185: do you know 4 FBI agents are assigned to montitor 4chan?
10:50:40 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:50:41 PM mikosutoka: 4 for 4chan
10:50:43 PM ldfkufjq: seriously kilo?
10:50:50 PM daisukexkun: To investigate the epic lulz
10:50:51 PM redskiesofyou: hahah
10:50:52 PM kilo1185: she will need curtains and a dog
10:50:54 PM kilo1185: FUCK YOU
10:50:56 PM comradelunar: So that's who posts all those damn chris hansen threads.
10:50:57 PM kilo1185: DAMMIT
10:50:58 PM loldamien: best job in the world
10:51:03 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:51:04 PM necrolich666: yeah!
10:51:09 PM redskiesofyou: i want to work for chris
10:51:10 PM necrolich666: lol notrlly
10:51:15 PM q4tlqbvyhk: do you know that i used to work for a major united states federal agency and got fired from that job for surfing 4chan?
10:51:15 PM redskiesofyou: like be the girl on the phone
10:51:16 PM thelastmerovin: Kilo, you know the FBI actualy has a backdoor into the server? They use it to grab IP's when someone posts a threat, they have immediate access.
10:51:20 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i don't want to say which one... 
10:51:25 PM comradelunar: NSA
10:51:27 PM comradelunar: NSA
10:51:27 PM comradelunar: NSA
10:51:31 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:51:31 PM mikosutoka: .... o shi
10:51:36 PM q4tlqbvyhk: no it wasn't hte nsa
10:51:37 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i wish.
10:51:42 PM daisukexkun: Ahh damn, my head hurts
10:51:46 PM redskiesofyou: 'perverted justice' or whatever their team is
10:51:46 PM comradelunar: Federal Geological Survey
10:51:52 PM ldfkufjq: go to bed daisuke? o.o
10:51:56 PM kilo1185: yes
10:52:00 PM thelastmerovin: lol
10:52:03 PM kilo1185: they dont appear to do their jobs thou
10:52:10 PM daisukexkun: Too early
10:52:15 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i think it's raining
10:52:18 PM kilo1185: i think they are in it for the CP
10:52:19 PM daisukexkun: And I suffer from insomnia
10:52:20 PM q4tlqbvyhk: yay rain
10:52:26 PM ldfkufjq: 4am here now heh
10:52:27 PM comradelunar: choclit reign
10:52:30 PM ldfkufjq: o god
10:52:34 PM ldfkufjq: i turned on radio one yesterday
10:52:37 PM daisukexkun: oh lord
10:52:39 PM necrolich666: There's a red light that keeps popping up in my house :(
10:52:40 PM ldfkufjq: and they were playing choklit reign
10:52:43 PM ldfkufjq: i died a little inside
10:52:44 PM comradelunar: Oh god.
10:52:46 PM kilo1185: yup
10:52:46 PM mikosutoka: ._. wtf.
10:52:47 PM loldamien: ! on the radio?
10:52:49 PM ldfkufjq: yes
10:52:50 PM daisukexkun: He's skyrocketted to fame
10:52:50 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i recorded the video of snacks, moot, maddeth and rj singing that.
10:52:51 PM comradelunar: It happened.
10:52:54 PM lastxkveqxztoc: That is amazing.
10:52:57 PM comradelunar: We wilol welcome the end, soon.
10:53:00 PM comradelunar: will
10:53:01 PM kilo1185: USPS
10:53:05 PM mikosutoka: *looks to the sky*
10:53:13 PM daisukexkun: The sky's the limit!
10:53:13 PM comradelunar: LOOK FOR THE BRON CLOUDS.
10:53:16 PM comradelunar: brown
10:53:18 PM q4tlqbvyhk: I HELD THAT CAMERA
10:53:19 PM ldfkufjq: tinfoil hats
10:53:19 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:53:25 PM necrolich666: I want a wii
10:53:26 PM kilo1185: its 8:53 here
10:53:28 PM kilo1185: PM
10:53:30 PM ldfkufjq: wii is fun
10:53:31 PM comradelunar: 3:53
10:53:32 PM redskiesofyou: oh gosh chocolate rain was on tv today
10:53:34 PM necrolich666: 10:53 PM
10:53:35 PM comradelunar: AM
10:53:35 PM redskiesofyou: my life hurts
10:53:36 PM ldfkufjq: but totally stupid
10:53:40 PM loldamien: Was it a legit radio station?  Or some sort of university/college thing?
10:53:48 PM comradelunar: Radio 1 is legit as it gets.
10:53:49 PM daisukexkun: Warioware Smooth Moves is good for laughs
10:53:50 PM ldfkufjq: bbc radio one
10:53:52 PM kilo1185: they play it on the radio?
10:53:54 PM kilo1185: wtf
10:53:55 PM loldamien: wowzers
10:53:56 PM mikosutoka: you have satelite
10:53:57 PM mikosutoka: radio
10:54:00 PM mikosutoka: miss L
10:54:03 PM comradelunar: Well, I hope one day to hear it on Radio 4 instead of Sailing By.
10:54:04 PM q4tlqbvyhk: no they did a bit on the local rock station hear about tay zonday
10:54:07 PM ldfkufjq: i listen to it on the net
10:54:10 PM daisukexkun: Ah
10:54:20 PM mikosutoka: if you listen to sirus i like ch 22.
10:54:26 PM ldfkufjq: don't know it
10:54:37 PM comradelunar: I used to sleep with my digital radio. In a totally non-weird way.
10:54:53 PM daisukexkun: I actually sleep with my iPod on
10:54:54 PM kilo1185: wildfires ftl
10:55:02 PM necrolich666: eewww ipods...
10:55:08 PM ldfkufjq: i have an ipod mini >_>
10:55:09 PM comradelunar: Careful nobody steals it.
10:55:13 PM q4tlqbvyhk: nyoro~n
10:55:17 PM necrolich666: lol Ipods steal your soul
10:55:17 PM daisukexkun: What color Lia?
10:55:21 PM ldfkufjq: green
10:55:23 PM necrolich666: yay!
10:55:27 PM daisukexkun: We have the same one
10:55:27 PM ldfkufjq: best color
10:55:29 PM comradelunar: I pretend to hate iPods but I'm just jealous of the rich kids. XD
10:55:35 PM ldfkufjq: omg we're totally soulmates
10:55:35 PM redskiesofyou: everyone has those hererr
10:55:37 PM kilo1185: so daisuke and necro = east coaters?
10:55:38 PM daisukexkun: =o
10:55:45 PM daisukexkun: Seems like it
10:55:46 PM redskiesofyou: i just got an mp3 phone cuz i like black gadgets
10:55:50 PM necrolich666: yeah NY here
10:55:54 PM daisukexkun: Jersey here
10:55:58 PM necrolich666: w00t
10:55:59 PM mikosutoka: wb is gonna shoot lunar when he hears that quote
10:55:59 PM loldamien: PA here lol
10:55:59 PM daisukexkun: Wow
10:56:00 PM kilo1185: XM satellite radio fools
10:56:04 PM daisukexkun: Even a stae away
10:56:04 PM redskiesofyou: jersey all tha wayyy
10:56:06 PM comradelunar: Which quote?
10:56:07 PM daisukexkun: state*
10:56:12 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i'm in the nation's high-five
10:56:15 PM comradelunar: WB is going tos hoot me anyway.
10:56:15 PM daisukexkun: Wow, I can't type today
10:56:23 PM necrolich666: stae xD
10:56:24 PM mikosutoka: ldfkufjq
10:55
omg we're totally soulmate
10:56:25 PM kilo1185: i use my PSP.......
10:56:29 PM comradelunar: He gave me strict instructions never to use this AIM, lol.
10:56:30 PM kilo1185: dont kill me plz
10:56:39 PM mikosutoka: I know
10:56:45 PM comradelunar: He is the boss of me.
10:56:53 PM mikosutoka: I told him to get video of lunar beating
10:56:54 PM mikosutoka:  later
10:57:03 PM kilo1185: WHAT?!?!
10:57:05 PM comradelunar: What.
10:57:07 PM kilo1185: pink is so ftw
10:57:08 PM mikosutoka: BDSM 
10:57:09 PM ldfkufjq: kinky?
10:57:16 PM lastxkveqxztoc: What is going on.
10:57:23 PM daisukexkun: Whoaaaa
10:57:25 PM necrolich666: wtf
10:57:26 PM mikosutoka: aim hiccup AGAIN
10:57:27 PM daisukexkun: That was bad
10:57:28 PM q4tlqbvyhk: internets broke.
10:57:28 PM comradelunar: wttttf
10:57:31 PM lastxkveqxztoc: lulz
10:57:36 PM comradelunar: A whole tube just collapsed.
10:57:36 PM necrolich666: CORRUPTION
10:57:41 PM redskiesofyou: WHAT
10:57:45 PM mikosutoka: AIM HICCUP :(
10:57:46 PM necrolich666: lulz @ lunar
10:57:48 PM loldamien: what the shit
10:57:49 PM ldfkufjq: thanks
10:57:52 PM q4tlqbvyhk: yw
10:57:53 PM ldfkufjq: o_o
10:57:53 PM mikosutoka: welcome back
10:57:56 PM comradelunar: don't lulz at me, punk.
10:57:58 PM ldfkufjq: idk why i keep getting kicked
10:58:01 PM daisukexkun: Wow
10:58:05 PM mikosutoka: aim hiccups everyone got kicked
10:58:05 PM daisukexkun: That was really bad
10:58:09 PM q4tlqbvyhk: because aim sucks
10:58:16 PM daisukexkun: Yes
10:58:18 PM necrolich666: meh its the best imo
10:58:23 PM necrolich666: I hate msn and yahoo
10:58:26 PM comradelunar: Best AIDS.
10:58:27 PM necrolich666: too fancy
10:58:30 PM necrolich666: xD
10:58:35 PM daisukexkun: lol
10:58:38 PM comradelunar: That damn bleeping, gawd.
10:58:41 PM q4tlqbvyhk: using aim on anything other than aim client
10:58:45 PM q4tlqbvyhk: good.
10:59:13 PM redskiesofyou: color changes
10:59:15 PM redskiesofyou: are better now.
10:59:21 PM necrolich666: wut..
10:59:24 PM daisukexkun: How so?
10:59:26 PM redskiesofyou: the usernames...
10:59:29 PM daisukexkun: Ahh
10:59:32 PM mikosutoka: yeah not using aim client
10:59:33 PM redskiesofyou: changed color when everyone came back in
10:59:36 PM daisukexkun: Same
10:59:36 PM q4tlqbvyhk: with how i have this chat set up, all your text is black, and regular arial font... but the backgrounds
10:59:37 PM mikosutoka: havent gotten kicked once don't see annoying colors
10:59:40 PM q4tlqbvyhk: are like a crayon box
10:59:42 PM q4tlqbvyhk: it's awesome
10:59:46 PM redskiesofyou: i'm getting some very pretty yellows and purples here
10:59:53 PM necrolich666: weird
10:59:56 PM necrolich666: I has a green
11:00:08 PM daisukexkun: I'm in a sort of orange/gold
11:00:17 PM comradelunar: Snotgreen.
11:00:18 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i'll upload cap and link jussec
11:00:24 PM necrolich666: MEATBREAD
11:00:31 PM necrolich666: needz more dakka
11:00:38 PM mikosutoka: ... what
11:00:40 PM comradelunar: dakka?
11:00:41 PM comradelunar: orkz
11:00:42 PM daisukexkun: I don't know
11:00:43 PM ldfkufjq: pastel.
11:00:43 PM daisukexkun: lol
11:00:45 PM necrolich666: YEAH!
11:00:47 PM comradelunar: ORK ORKZ ORKZ ORKZ
11:00:47 PM necrolich666: orkz
11:00:48 PM q4tlqbvyhk: lia, you said you don't watch tv.  do you watch any shows like, by downloading?
11:00:53 PM comradelunar: WE IZ DA ORKZ, AND YOU IS NOT
11:01:01 PM ldfkufjq: yes i do q.
11:01:10 PM redskiesofyou: torrrrent?
11:01:13 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i need to be specific, huh.  what shows? 
11:01:27 PM q4tlqbvyhk: http://i12.tinypic.com/4pnqaag.png
11:01:30 PM ldfkufjq: lost, heroes, battlestar galactica
11:01:37 PM comradelunar: Galactica? New or old?
11:01:40 PM mikosutoka: rainbow colors
11:01:40 PM redskiesofyou: that reminds me i need to find a torrent of gurren lagann, its hard since it got licensed
11:01:41 PM loldamien: woah colors
11:01:42 PM daisukexkun: Heroes is amazing
11:01:45 PM necrolich666: I never saw the pull of those shows
11:01:52 PM daisukexkun: Gundam 00
11:01:53 PM daisukexkun: =D
11:01:57 PM q4tlqbvyhk: yeah see, my chat looks beautiful :)
11:01:59 PM comradelunar: pewpew robots
11:02:02 PM daisukexkun: I can't wait for it.
11:02:04 PM ldfkufjq: new one
11:02:11 PM necrolich666: Meh
11:02:14 PM daisukexkun: Been a Gundam fan since I was younger
11:02:15 PM necrolich666: gundam wing > all
11:02:17 PM q4tlqbvyhk: lol
11:02:21 PM comradelunar: I shat brix ovre female starbuck.
11:02:22 PM ldfkufjq: never seen gundam
11:02:28 PM daisukexkun: I liked 0083: Stardust Memory
11:02:30 PM necrolich666: Ahhhh!!1.. endless waltzzzzzz
11:02:30 PM redskiesofyou: aw im a gundam girl
11:02:31 PM ldfkufjq: kara thrace is pretty hot
11:02:36 PM redskiesofyou: i'm watching Turn A now
11:02:37 PM necrolich666: <333 my first anime love
11:02:38 PM q4tlqbvyhk: remember when they showed evangelion on cartoon network?
11:02:41 PM q4tlqbvyhk: lol mtv
11:02:42 PM daisukexkun: Oh yes
11:02:45 PM comradelunar: Agreed. Also whoever it is plays Apollo.
11:02:46 PM daisukexkun: That one day
11:02:50 PM q4tlqbvyhk: mtv lol
11:02:53 PM loldamien: How about the new Rebuild of Evangelion, excited about that Lia? :O
11:03:01 PM mikosutoka: http://i13.tinypic.com/4lt8tn5.png
11:03:05 PM ldfkufjq: i actually hadnt heard about that damien, i dont really watch anime any more
11:03:24 PM daisukexkun: I can see my Kyo picture
11:03:25 PM q4tlqbvyhk: anime for me:  i'm not trying to get into anything new.  but the stuff i like, is the stuff i like.  
11:03:30 PM necrolich666: eveyone has cool icons :(
11:03:31 PM q4tlqbvyhk: which is basically eva.
11:03:32 PM daisukexkun: Exactly
11:03:47 PM comradelunar: I don't get anime.
11:03:48 PM loldamien: http://youtube.com/watch?v=7pfnqsEEEpo&mode=related&search=   For your reference then.
11:03:54 PM daisukexkun: I've seen Eva so many times it's not even funny
11:03:55 PM comradelunar: It's all cartoons to me, like mickey mouse.
11:04:00 PM q4tlqbvyhk: is this a legit trailer?
11:04:17 PM loldamien: The three new songs by Utada Hikaru have been leaked, FYI
11:04:19 PM loldamien: Yeah thats legit
11:04:38 PM necrolich666: anyone read deathnote?
11:04:41 PM ldfkufjq: looks pretty cool o.o
11:04:46 PM ldfkufjq: not a death note fan.
11:04:50 PM q4tlqbvyhk: omfg... 
11:04:51 PM necrolich666: ;-;
11:04:51 PM redskiesofyou: i dont get the popular stuff
11:04:53 PM mikosutoka: deathnote sucks
11:04:58 PM redskiesofyou: deathnote fangirls are scary
11:05:08 PM necrolich666: thx guyz /wrists
11:05:11 PM comradelunar: It all sucks, in my learned and not at all generalised opinion.
11:05:12 PM daisukexkun: I'm a Death Note fan
11:05:16 PM loldamien: Yeah, I can't wait to see it!  The first movie will be shown sometime in September~ search around then for fansubs... I'm sure a bajillion people will sub it :D
11:05:24 PM comradelunar: Criminals!
11:05:25 PM daisukexkun: I actually bought a notebook at AnimeNext
11:05:33 PM q4tlqbvyhk: yeah they should be smarter
11:05:34 PM thelastmerovin: Death Note, what the fuck?
11:05:35 PM q4tlqbvyhk: and release it in the us
11:05:40 PM q4tlqbvyhk: simultaneously 
11:05:46 PM q4tlqbvyhk: er, worldwide
11:06:10 PM redskiesofyou: hahah at Otakon all I did was buy gundams. i skipped the 4chan panel for gundam panel. 
11:06:11 PM daisukexkun: Jeez Necro, we MUST have been separated at Birth
11:06:12 PM q4tlqbvyhk: lol new animus 
11:06:19 PM necrolich666: I know right Daisuke?
11:06:25 PM comradelunar: lol at animu elitism.
11:06:26 PM daisukexkun: I wish I had enough for model kits
11:06:31 PM mikosutoka: http://youtube.com/watch?v=ToeY7MkCm0c
11:06:32 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i wish to draw gundoms from my naked imagination
11:06:36 PM redskiesofyou: i have like a wall of them ;____; 
11:06:42 PM loldamien: I bought my first gundam model kit at Otakon... what kid of paints should I use for it?
11:06:50 PM daisukexkun: And yet, I never saw one model of Sazabi or GP-02
11:06:51 PM mikosutoka: good paint
11:06:52 PM q4tlqbvyhk: fucking hell this looks good.
11:06:53 PM redskiesofyou: i just posted hi-res of my custom Zudah on /m/ yesterday
11:06:55 PM thelastmerovin: I have officialy lost all interest in this conversation
11:07:01 PM necrolich666: I only has a few models and deh bork
11:07:02 PM redskiesofyou: get an airbrush if you're seriousss
11:07:02 PM ldfkufjq: wow, people nerdier than me
11:07:05 PM thelastmerovin: Gundams FTL
11:07:10 PM loldamien: Yeah, my friend has an airbrush
11:07:12 PM necrolich666: more likely then you think
11:07:14 PM q4tlqbvyhk: gundoms
11:07:16 PM loldamien: Any brands of paint you recommend?
11:07:17 PM daisukexkun: It's more likely than you thing Lia
11:07:21 PM comradelunar: gundoms? Ew.
11:07:23 PM daisukexkun: think*
11:07:24 PM redskiesofyou: not reallyyy
11:07:29 PM daisukexkun: Christ, my typing's off
11:07:30 PM thelastmerovin: whatever
11:07:37 PM redskiesofyou: i dont use an airbrush, i use brushes :( 
11:07:48 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i keep watching this rebuild of evangelion thingggggg
11:07:49 PM redskiesofyou: i need to get around to it
11:07:52 PM loldamien: k
11:07:57 PM loldamien: isn't it awesome :D
11:07:58 PM redskiesofyou: i'd go back and repaint everything too
11:08:03 PM daisukexkun: I wish I could find a model of Sazabi
11:08:04 PM loldamien: I'll find the music torrent, one sec
11:08:06 PM q4tlqbvyhk: eva makes me... cry.
11:08:14 PM redskiesofyou: gundamstoreandmore?
11:08:16 PM redskiesofyou: HLJ?
11:08:17 PM comradelunar: Which makes me die a little inside.
11:08:32 PM necrolich666: Lia ever heard of the Vaselines?
11:08:37 PM daisukexkun: Well, somewhere close to where I live at least
11:08:53 PM redskiesofyou: for my zudah, i used a beaten metal textured spray paint (plastic bond sort)
11:08:55 PM ldfkufjq: nope necro
11:08:58 PM mikosutoka: wonder what'd happen if we all went to a bar together
11:09:04 PM redskiesofyou: internets is close to you, obviously
11:09:05 PM daisukexkun: Uhh
11:09:08 PM daisukexkun: True
11:09:09 PM necrolich666: oh they're quite nice :P
11:09:12 PM loldamien: http://www.datorrents.com/torrents-details.asp?id=24049   Should go really fast.  The new Fly me to the moon is lovely <3
11:09:13 PM daisukexkun: But I don't feel like shipping
11:09:18 PM comradelunar: A couple of people people would get chucked out.
11:09:24 PM redskiesofyou: but stores rip you off
11:09:25 PM daisukexkun: Right here
11:09:29 PM daisukexkun: *underage b&*
11:09:33 PM redskiesofyou: they more than take for "shipping"
11:09:39 PM daisukexkun: As long as I get one, I'm fine
11:09:52 PM necrolich666: I wanna listen to some.....Savage garden...
11:09:56 PM redskiesofyou: haha guys at otakon/4chan asked where i stole my wristband
11:10:00 PM mikosutoka: how old are you, isnt there like bars in England that allow 16 for drinking
11:10:01 PM necrolich666: -.- don't judge me
11:10:04 PM mikosutoka: @ daisuke
11:10:04 PM daisukexkun: lol
11:10:08 PM daisukexkun: Actually
11:10:12 PM ldfkufjq: no, legal drinking age is 18
11:10:13 PM daisukexkun: I turn 16 in September
11:10:14 PM comradelunar: 18 nationwide just for drinking.
11:10:20 PM redskiesofyou: 18 in russias too
11:10:23 PM necrolich666: I am 16
11:10:23 PM comradelunar: I think after 15 you can order a drink with food.
11:10:36 PM ldfkufjq: maybe. my local store never ids me when i buy liqor.
11:10:36 PM mikosutoka: can you just be there if you dont drink
11:10:44 PM daisukexkun: Depends
11:10:44 PM ldfkufjq: not sure
11:10:48 PM redskiesofyou: usually
11:10:49 PM comradelunar: Fun with drunk people.
11:10:57 PM thelastmerovin: LEGAL DRINKING AGE OF 18 FTW
11:11:00 PM loldamien: Wow, you guys are young.  I'm 23 D:
11:11:08 PM necrolich666: I don't drink or smoke
11:11:09 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i quit drinking.
11:11:11 PM comradelunar: Oh, you old man.
11:11:14 PM daisukexkun: I've been somewhat turned off to drinking because of my mother and my brother
11:11:14 PM redskiesofyou: in new jersey, you'll find upset children tagging along with their trailor trash hooker moms in bars
11:11:18 PM ldfkufjq: smoking, kinda grody.
11:11:27 PM ldfkufjq: i dont drink a lot
11:11:27 PM necrolich666: yeah my father died from Sirrosis
11:11:27 PM comradelunar: I can get drunk off the possibility of alcohol.
11:11:29 PM ldfkufjq: only socially
11:11:33 PM q4tlqbvyhk: and on the internet
11:11:35 PM loldamien: Smoking is disgusting.  
11:11:36 PM redskiesofyou: >__> sXe here. 
11:11:40 PM comradelunar: lol
11:11:45 PM daisukexkun: I used to do it.
11:11:49 PM q4tlqbvyhk: <-- wore X's on his hands in high school. 
11:11:50 PM daisukexkun: Because of my whore of an ex
11:11:51 PM q4tlqbvyhk: true story.
11:11:51 PM necrolich666: What's wrong with being sXe?
11:11:58 PM thelastmerovin: I smoke when I'm stressed out
11:11:59 PM redskiesofyou: well
11:12:01 PM loldamien: And I have too much fun getting drunk people to do stupid stuff on camera~ so i'm not much a drinker either.
11:12:02 PM comradelunar: It's lulzy.
11:12:05 PM thelastmerovin: which is often 
11:12:16 PM redskiesofyou: my friends thought it was lame til i had to take one of them to the hospital after a drug overdose
11:12:19 PM mikosutoka: lol damien 
11:12:21 PM mikosutoka: have we met before
11:12:23 PM q4tlqbvyhk: here's what's wrong with sXe:  the need to make it a big cause.
11:12:23 PM mikosutoka: in some weird hotel
11:12:24 PM mikosutoka: ._.
11:12:32 PM necrolich666: O.O
11:12:32 PM mikosutoka: i swear your sn sounds familiar
11:12:34 PM loldamien: D:?
11:12:41 PM ldfkufjq: hahahaha
11:12:45 PM loldamien: Hmmmm, iunno!
11:12:48 PM redskiesofyou: no i never preach, i hang with all sorts of crazies and i never bothrer them as long as thei dont bother me
11:12:59 PM redskiesofyou: people can do whatever they want :/
11:13:04 PM necrolich666: I know right
11:13:23 PM comradelunar: Alcohol just makes me think of the song Pick me up Big Chicken.
11:13:34 PM necrolich666: O.o
11:13:39 PM necrolich666: big cock...
11:13:39 PM mikosutoka: what song is that
11:13:40 PM necrolich666: xD
11:13:45 PM comradelunar: D:
11:13:50 PM necrolich666: sorry immaturity showing
11:13:55 PM comradelunar: Never mind. Never mind. : |
11:13:59 PM daisukexkun: Don't worry about it.
11:14:02 PM redskiesofyou: x3
11:14:09 PM comradelunar: It's only a CLASSIC! :-D
11:14:20 PM comradelunar: Also, I have shit taste in music.
11:14:29 PM daisukexkun: You and me both Lunar
11:14:52 PM necrolich666: lies
11:15:01 PM necrolich666: ok maybe
11:15:06 PM mikosutoka: omg shotas
11:15:10 PM mikosutoka: ._. take pics
11:15:10 PM comradelunar: Bom-bom-bom-ba-dum-bom-bom.
11:15:11 PM mikosutoka: >_>
11:15:12 PM mikosutoka: <_<
11:15:14 PM comradelunar: Wait, what?
11:15:21 PM daisukexkun: I actually have pics
11:15:26 PM redskiesofyou: wutttt
11:15:28 PM mikosutoka: zomg
11:15:29 PM daisukexkun: Just regular crap
11:15:30 PM comradelunar: Why don't you take a seat here?
11:15:32 PM mikosutoka: LOL
11:15:33 PM daisukexkun: No shota
11:15:33 PM daisukexkun: lol
11:15:44 PM necrolich666: wut stop making me do bad things on cam
11:15:44 PM q4tlqbvyhk: what the fuck is going on 
11:15:49 PM necrolich666: D:
11:15:49 PM redskiesofyou: oh geez i forgot, i was gonna take pics today now that my hair matches my car. 
11:15:50 PM comradelunar: pedophilia.
11:15:56 PM necrolich666: is a way of life
11:16:00 PM q4tlqbvyhk: facepalm
11:16:02 PM daisukexkun: lol
11:16:04 PM mikosutoka: male moe
11:16:07 PM comradelunar: Anonymous says: LOL MOAR.
11:16:16 PM daisukexkun: OP says lolno
11:16:25 PM loldamien: curtains match the wheels hrrrrrrrr
11:16:25 PM comradelunar: sage this shit, etc
11:16:28 PM mikosutoka: nevermind necro he's not your twin at all..... he's an evil twin
11:16:33 PM mikosutoka: ._.
11:16:45 PM daisukexkun: /soap opera
11:17:03 PM necrolich666: ah
11:17:05 PM comradelunar: oh god, spider
11:17:12 PM necrolich666: *diminished chord!*
11:17:21 PM redskiesofyou: oyea my car is bright turquoise
11:17:29 PM ldfkufjq: good color.
11:17:34 PM loldamien: coolness!
11:18:27 PM necrolich666: *chirp chirp chirp*
11:18:29 PM necrolich666: so
11:18:33 PM mikosutoka: so
11:18:34 PM necrolich666: how bout them sabres
11:18:44 PM q4tlqbvyhk: so how bout them uh
11:18:46 PM q4tlqbvyhk: internets
11:18:51 PM comradelunar: CAVALRY SABRES.
11:18:53 PM comradelunar: TALLY-HO!
11:18:54 PM q4tlqbvyhk: tubes 
11:18:55 PM mikosutoka: thats it im shutting off the internets
11:18:57 PM q4tlqbvyhk: youtubes. 
11:19:00 PM mikosutoka: -starts pulling cords out of her arm-
11:19:06 PM comradelunar: Oh, you ass.
11:19:06 PM q4tlqbvyhk: NO LAIN NO
11:19:08 PM necrolich666: oh fuck shee's serious
11:19:20 PM mikosutoka: ;_; alice haets me
11:19:24 PM comradelunar: Somebody sedate her.
11:19:33 PM necrolich666: *Shoot horse tranqulizer*
11:19:45 PM comradelunar: Immobilon+people=blarg im ded
11:19:46 PM daisukexkun: Don't dawdle Alice, we're very late indeed!
11:20:14 PM necrolich666: I wish I was a sunfish
11:20:23 PM comradelunar: I wish I was a slime mould.
11:20:30 PM daisukexkun: I wish I was an Oscar Mayer Wiener
11:20:34 PM necrolich666: stfu
11:20:36 PM comradelunar: Ohsnap.
11:20:38 PM loldamien: .
11:20:41 PM mikosutoka: lia
11:20:43 PM mikosutoka: did she pass out
11:20:44 PM daisukexkun: =P
11:20:47 PM ldfkufjq: x_x
11:20:51 PM necrolich666: oh noes
11:20:52 PM q4tlqbvyhk: she's all lurkin
11:20:53 PM daisukexkun: Apparently not
11:20:53 PM q4tlqbvyhk: readin
11:20:59 PM comradelunar: lurk less
11:20:59 PM mikosutoka: head on keyboard
11:21:04 PM ldfkufjq: getting coffee.
11:21:06 PM daisukexkun: Commenting on how weird we are
11:21:08 PM daisukexkun: yeah
11:21:08 PM comradelunar: facepalm.jpg
11:21:20 PM q4tlqbvyhk: oh, btw, i'm behind the dovesoap thing on 4chan /b/
11:21:21 PM q4tlqbvyhk: in fact
11:21:24 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i'm going to start it right now
11:21:25 PM loldamien: jpalm.face
11:21:27 PM q4tlqbvyhk: to prove it's me
11:21:28 PM comradelunar: Get cancer.
11:21:29 PM necrolich666: my thumb is big enough to twist my upper lip with its joint and go in my nose
11:21:29 PM mikosutoka: lol XD
11:21:47 PM daisukexkun: What
11:21:47 PM mikosutoka: nice to know ._<
11:21:48 PM daisukexkun: lol
11:21:51 PM loldamien: soap :D
11:22:03 PM q4tlqbvyhk: 23:21:56: Post 1 to No.35213920 (page 10) done.          http://img.4chan.org/b/res/35213920.html#35214796
11:22:04 PM comradelunar: All soapspammers should get the kind where they have to remove the entire contents of the abdomen.
11:22:06 PM q4tlqbvyhk: lolol
11:22:06 PM necrolich666: ow ow ow ow
11:22:19 PM mikosutoka: hes the only soap spammer
11:22:20 PM q4tlqbvyhk: like 1/2 of the soapspammers are in this room
11:22:21 PM daisukexkun: Apply directly to the foreead I see
11:22:22 PM mikosutoka: lol
11:22:24 PM q4tlqbvyhk: no there's 4
11:22:26 PM daisukexkun: forehead*
11:22:28 PM daisukexkun: Chrst
11:22:31 PM daisukexkun: Chirst*
11:22:31 PM loldamien: :)
11:22:35 PM daisukexkun: Christ******
11:22:36 PM lastxkveqxztoc: I would look at that link but I'm banned.
11:22:42 PM ldfkufjq: soapspam wtf
11:22:44 PM q4tlqbvyhk: how do i evaded ban
11:22:52 PM q4tlqbvyhk: okay i'll explain spamming soap:
11:22:56 PM comradelunar: take a walk in the torpark
11:22:57 PM q4tlqbvyhk: 4chan needs a distraction.
11:22:58 PM q4tlqbvyhk: something to hate.
11:22:59 PM q4tlqbvyhk: and
11:23:06 PM q4tlqbvyhk: it would be good if it were itself.
11:23:06 PM daisukexkun: Other than the newfags
11:23:08 PM q4tlqbvyhk: yes.
11:23:12 PM comradelunar: <3 newfags.
11:23:16 PM q4tlqbvyhk: so i thought, "what's the least funny thing ever"
11:23:20 PM necrolich666: gtfo newfags
11:23:21 PM mikosutoka: protip: lunar =/= newfag
11:23:23 PM daisukexkun: *soap*
11:23:26 PM q4tlqbvyhk: and i was taking a piss.  and i looked over at soap.  
11:23:31 PM q4tlqbvyhk: and i thought "soap. an ad for soap"
11:23:32 PM necrolich666: lunar = oldfag
11:23:37 PM necrolich666: tripfag
11:23:38 PM mikosutoka: lol soap
11:23:39 PM necrolich666: etc
11:23:44 PM comradelunar: lunar=fag
11:23:47 PM q4tlqbvyhk: so dialsoap was born.
11:23:47 PM daisukexkun: I'm just an oldfag
11:23:48 PM comradelunar: I mean... SHit.
11:23:50 PM necrolich666: XD
11:24:29 PM mikosutoka: fucking alizee.
11:24:33 PM comradelunar: whut
11:24:37 PM q4tlqbvyhk: lol
11:24:38 PM mikosutoka: nothing ._.
11:24:45 PM q4tlqbvyhk: alizee has quite the posterior 
11:24:49 PM q4tlqbvyhk: just sayin.
11:24:56 PM necrolich666: I keep not seeing lia's name in the chat list and freaking out :( I feel lame
11:25:00 PM mikosutoka: i had to dictionary that word Q
11:25:11 PM comradelunar: goddamnit I feel left out of this.
11:25:14 PM ldfkufjq: i'm a bit tired not very chatty >.>
11:25:17 PM comradelunar: Posterior chat? zomg.
11:25:23 PM daisukexkun: Wow
11:25:24 PM comradelunar: lolololol
11:25:29 PM mikosutoka: omg who keeps burping aim
11:25:30 PM comradelunar: Brace for impact.
11:25:32 PM daisukexkun: idk
11:25:36 PM loldamien: what the shit
11:25:36 PM mikosutoka: welcome back lia
11:25:37 PM daisukexkun: Wow
11:25:40 PM daisukexkun: That always happens
11:25:42 PM comradelunar: wb lia
11:25:45 PM daisukexkun: And before you left
11:25:57 PM daisukexkun: it's understandable that you're tired and not very chatty.
11:26:16 PM comradelunar: half of this room is desperate to keep this up with mindless crap, lulz.
11:26:16 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:26:18 PM ldfkufjq: well i just had a coffee x_x
11:26:18 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:26:23 PM daisukexkun: Whoaaa
11:26:23 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:26:24 PM mikosutoka: what the hell merovin relog
11:26:25 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:26:27 PM comradelunar: lol
11:26:27 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:26:28 PM q4tlqbvyhk: what happen
11:26:28 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:26:31 PM daisukexkun: Ohgod
11:26:32 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:26:33 PM ldfkufjq: merovin possessed
11:26:34 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:26:34 PM comradelunar: someone set up us the bomb
11:26:35 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:26:35 PM q4tlqbvyhk: what's going on
11:26:35 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:26:36 PM mikosutoka: damnit i dont have kick function
11:26:38 PM ldfkufjq: hahahaha
11:26:42 PM necrolich666: Lol lia is pink
11:26:42 PM daisukexkun: Ohhh dear god
11:26:46 PM q4tlqbvyhk: oh wtf
11:26:56 PM daisukexkun: This happened in another chat I'm a regular at
11:26:56 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:26:59 PM daisukexkun: It was baddd
11:27:00 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:04 PM loldamien: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:04 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:05 PM mikosutoka: merovin RELOG
11:27:05 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:06 PM comradelunar: ohlawd
11:27:06 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:07 PM q4tlqbvyhk: who is breaking the internet.
11:27:07 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:07 PM daisukexkun: TheLastMerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:10 PM necrolich666: wtf
11:27:10 PM loldamien: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:16 PM q4tlqbvyhk: daisukexkun: TheLastMerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:18 PM mikosutoka: ok thats it everyone to crackybounceme2
11:27:18 PM daisukexkun: Damien too
11:27:20 PM daisukexkun: What
11:27:21 PM redskiesofyou: ??huh
11:27:22 PM loldamien: sup
11:27:23 PM comradelunar: Tubes broked
11:27:30 PM ldfkufjq: the sky is falling
11:27:31 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:36 PM daisukexkun: Oh lord
11:27:36 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:39 PM necrolich666: the fall is skying
11:27:39 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:40 PM comradelunar: chicken licken
11:27:40 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:41 PM daisukexkun: Man the harpoons
11:27:41 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:27:48 PM necrolich666: Harpoon the mans
11:27:48 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:28:02 PM comradelunar: someone called the other day, said old teddy greenstreets passed away.
11:28:03 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:28:03 PM loldamien: Poon the Harmans
11:28:03 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:28:06 PM q4tlqbvyhk: the pokemans
11:28:06 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:28:14 PM comradelunar: They buried him on saturday, they said it was a lovely way to go.
11:28:14 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:28:15 PM ldfkufjq: let them show you me?
11:28:15 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:28:26 PM comradelunar: also dongs.
11:28:26 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:28:28 PM necrolich666: :(
11:28:28 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:28:34 PM necrolich666: stupid system message
11:28:34 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:28:46 PM necrolich666: how do I stop message
11:28:46 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:28:49 PM comradelunar: needs new room that doesn't have the AIDS
11:28:49 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:30:09 PM necrolich666: where are we going?
11:30:09 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:30:13 PM mikosutoka: crackybounceme2
11:30:13 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:30:18 PM mikosutoka: 

crackybounceme2 < join chat
11:30:18 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:30:24 PM comradelunar: HOWWW
11:30:24 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:30:30 PM mikosutoka: click join chat
11:30:30 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:30:34 PM redskiesofyou: what
11:30:34 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:30:34 PM mikosutoka: I invited you 
11:30:35 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:30:36 PM q4tlqbvyhk: where did we go
11:30:37 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:30:39 PM redskiesofyou: stop that
11:30:39 PM thelastmerovin: [System Message] User is not available.
11:52:52 PM necrolich666: omg
11:52:57 PM necrolich666: if my internet runs out
11:53:02 PM mikosutoka: what did i miss
11:53:02 PM necrolich666: I'm going to fucking cry
11:53:03 PM mikosutoka: ._.
11:53:04 PM comradelunar: Run  out of tubez.
11:53:06 PM q4tlqbvyhk: nothing
11:53:11 PM q4tlqbvyhk: lia's quiet
11:53:12 PM mikosutoka: i was tucking my baby away
11:53:13 PM comradelunar: You missed mean things.
11:53:15 PM q4tlqbvyhk: so nothing important.
11:53:16 PM q4tlqbvyhk: yes and 
11:53:23 PM q4tlqbvyhk: there's some kind of
11:53:24 PM ldfkufjq: theres not much of great excitement going on guys =P
11:53:28 PM q4tlqbvyhk: lol
11:53:32 PM q4tlqbvyhk: okay let's step it up
11:53:49 PM loldamien: give it some soul
11:53:53 PM necrolich666: lets play dnd
11:53:54 PM comradelunar: Oh god.
11:53:55 PM mikosutoka: LOL
11:53:56 PM necrolich666: necrolich666 rolled 2 6-sided dice:  3 6
11:54:01 PM necrolich666: AWESOME
11:54:08 PM comradelunar: I'm a half-elf rogue, srs.
11:54:08 PM loldamien: /roll 1d6
11:54:10 PM lastxkveqxztoc: Heh...I forget how to do that.
11:54:23 PM q4tlqbvyhk: um
11:54:26 PM necrolich666: I can only roll 2d6 though :(
11:54:26 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i'll DM
11:54:33 PM mikosutoka: i dont know how to play DnD
11:54:33 PM q4tlqbvyhk: ...
11:54:35 PM q4tlqbvyhk: YOU ALL DIE
11:54:36 PM comradelunar: Somebody make this stop. :|
11:54:37 PM necrolich666: psh I have lair of the spider queen
11:54:39 PM q4tlqbvyhk: BECAUSE
11:54:40 PM q4tlqbvyhk: LIA
11:54:42 PM q4tlqbvyhk: EXPLODES
11:54:48 PM q4tlqbvyhk: idk.
11:54:49 PM comradelunar: lol, singularity.
11:54:50 PM ldfkufjq: ohshi-
11:54:51 PM q4tlqbvyhk: /end rp.
11:54:52 PM necrolich666: wait wu.....
11:54:54 PM mikosutoka: i was gonna say
11:54:56 PM thelastmerovin: ?
11:54:59 PM mikosutoka: lets all meet up at a gay bar in second life
11:55:02 PM mikosutoka: but they still wont unban me
11:55:03 PM ldfkufjq: omg lets.
11:55:04 PM kilo1185: ...
11:55:04 PM necrolich666: LOL
11:55:08 PM mikosutoka: xD
11:55:09 PM loldamien: second life...
11:55:09 PM comradelunar: Second Life is made of lag and horrible failure,
11:55:11 PM comradelunar: Also furries.
11:55:17 PM necrolich666: let's make furries
11:55:19 PM necrolich666: XD
11:55:22 PM mikosutoka: i havent played cause my bf made a terroirst
11:55:23 PM ldfkufjq: omg great idea
11:55:24 PM comradelunar: I can never get past the first bit.
11:55:25 PM mikosutoka: and he attacked a furry club
11:55:29 PM mikosutoka: THE ZOOKEEPER HAS COME
11:55:30 PM mikosutoka: etc
11:55:32 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i have a character on second life
11:55:33 PM q4tlqbvyhk: named
11:55:34 PM mikosutoka: and they permabanned my computer
11:55:35 PM q4tlqbvyhk: Crackych An
11:55:38 PM q4tlqbvyhk: swear to god.
11:55:50 PM comradelunar: I used to be Nigra Fapp. My 40-foot penis tower was awesome.
11:55:55 PM ldfkufjq: i've seen a lot of online avatars with Crackychan as the name
11:55:57 PM mikosutoka: the best thing in SL i danced with speedy cat
11:56:11 PM ldfkufjq: i've never played SL tbqh, nearly did but i was saved at the last minute
11:56:21 PM q4tlqbvyhk: yeah it's full of furfaggotry 
11:56:22 PM comradelunar: Somebody did you a great service.
11:56:23 PM loldamien: Sorry Lia, I got crackychan banned from Habbo Hotel :(
11:56:27 PM ldfkufjq: hahaha
11:56:32 PM necrolich666: LMFAO
11:56:39 PM q4tlqbvyhk: There has to be a way thta you can profit from the phenomenon 
11:56:45 PM q4tlqbvyhk: like buy crackychan.com
11:56:47 PM comradelunar: Merchandise.
11:56:48 PM q4tlqbvyhk: and have ads.
11:56:48 PM ldfkufjq: trademark?
11:56:50 PM q4tlqbvyhk: merchandise yes
11:56:51 PM redskiesofyou: more shirt runs
11:56:52 PM q4tlqbvyhk: trademark.
11:56:54 PM q4tlqbvyhk: shirts.
11:57:01 PM comradelunar: Jam.
11:57:02 PM ldfkufjq: cracky anime imo
11:57:02 PM q4tlqbvyhk: um
11:57:05 PM kilo1185: start up a buisness
11:57:05 PM necrolich666: who wants cheese
11:57:06 PM redskiesofyou: i'll donate more designs XD;
11:57:06 PM thelastmerovin: lol yes
11:57:07 PM q4tlqbvyhk: rabbit
11:57:07 PM necrolich666: OMFG
11:57:10 PM q4tlqbvyhk: designed a shirt
11:57:11 PM necrolich666: CRACKY ANIME!!!
11:57:12 PM redskiesofyou: facial stickers.
11:57:12 PM q4tlqbvyhk: caitlin 
11:57:17 PM thelastmerovin: I want another shirt Faux
11:57:17 PM loldamien: CafePress.com/crackyofficial
11:57:20 PM q4tlqbvyhk: she made a shirt.  sold a bunch of htem
11:57:32 PM comradelunar: Rabbit= win and fail.
11:57:33 PM q4tlqbvyhk: i'll find link to rabbit-chan's shirt
11:57:34 PM redskiesofyou: she knows ;o
11:57:43 PM necrolich666: Rabbit is all fail no win
11:57:45 PM ldfkufjq: i heard about the shirts
11:58:11 PM ldfkufjq: brb a sec guys, gotta feed my cat.
11:58:20 PM necrolich666: awwww kitty :3
11:58:24 PM kilo1185: at 4 in the morning?
11:58:28 PM mikosutoka: kittyyy
11:58:30 PM q4tlqbvyhk: it's half cat, half fox
11:58:31 PM q4tlqbvyhk: AMIRITE
11:58:35 PM mikosutoka: nekofox
11:58:39 PM redskiesofyou: ew rabbit is fug sorry guysss
11:58:49 PM lastxkveqxztoc: I have to agree with that.
11:58:56 PM q4tlqbvyhk: btw
11:58:58 PM q4tlqbvyhk: who owns the sky
11:59:04 PM loldamien: THRUST VECTORING
11:59:08 PM lastxkveqxztoc: Cracky-chan?
11:59:18 PM kilo1185: let me guess
11:59:21 PM kilo1185: the us air force
11:59:29 PM mikosutoka: TEH REI
11:59:33 PM mikosutoka: teh rei owns you ALLZ
11:59:35 PM redskiesofyou: snacks?
11:59:56 PM ldfkufjq: he gets testy
11:59:59 PM ldfkufjq: i have two cats
12:00:01 AM ldfkufjq: one is anorexic
12:00:03 AM ldfkufjq: the other one has coe
12:00:08 AM kilo1185: coe?
12:00:09 AM loldamien: coe
12:00:16 AM ldfkufjq: compulsive over eating
12:00:21 AM kilo1185: oh
12:00:23 AM thelastmerovin: the cat has coe
12:00:24 AM loldamien: I guess that equals out
12:00:26 AM thelastmerovin: the cat has coe
12:00:30 AM redskiesofyou: like my mom
12:00:34 AM redskiesofyou: oooooooooooh
12:00:40 AM q4tlqbvyhk: rabbit-chan t-shirt
12:00:41 AM q4tlqbvyhk: http://www.uneetee.com/category/productInfo.asp?idx=33
12:00:56 AM redskiesofyou: ?
12:01:01 AM q4tlqbvyhk: i'm amused how xx-large is sold out
12:01:06 AM mikosutoka: $317.00
12:01:06 AM ldfkufjq: ehehe
12:01:09 AM q4tlqbvyhk: there's a lot of REALLY FAT GUYS out there
12:01:13 AM q4tlqbvyhk: with rabbit chan shirts.
12:01:16 AM loldamien: squids don't breath soda
12:01:24 AM mikosutoka: i hate those kind of shirts
12:01:57 AM thelastmerovin: dude, what the fuck
12:02:04 AM kilo1185: ?
12:02:22 AM thelastmerovin: rabbit chan is a dog
12:02:28 AM ldfkufjq: i'm not even sure who rabbit chan is
12:02:35 AM ldfkufjq: i feel so out of touch
12:02:35 AM loldamien: whoops, i mean jellyfish.  I doubt they breathe it either D:
12:02:43 AM q4tlqbvyhk: k jussec i'll show you the pic
12:02:46 AM q4tlqbvyhk: where she has a knife
12:02:49 AM ldfkufjq: why is she called rabbit chan?
12:02:50 AM q4tlqbvyhk: pointed at cracky chan
12:02:50 AM loldamien: rabbit chan is disgusting
12:02:51 AM lastxkveqxztoc: oh lawd
12:02:54 AM thelastmerovin: well she hates you lia.
12:02:54 AM q4tlqbvyhk: cuz she has rabbit teeth
12:02:58 AM q4tlqbvyhk: naw she doesn't hate
12:02:59 AM ldfkufjq: death match
12:03:00 AM mikosutoka: omg CC meets rabbit
12:03:02 AM q4tlqbvyhk: yes
12:03:04 AM q4tlqbvyhk: OKAY 
12:03:07 AM q4tlqbvyhk: NEED TO STAGE
12:03:07 AM ldfkufjq: PVP
12:03:07 AM q4tlqbvyhk: PIC
12:03:09 AM q4tlqbvyhk: with
12:03:10 AM q4tlqbvyhk: lia
12:03:13 AM redskiesofyou: aw dude 
12:03:14 AM q4tlqbvyhk: killing rabbit chan
12:03:17 AM thelastmerovin: get the 'rabbit-chan forever' image
12:03:19 AM q4tlqbvyhk: with knife
12:03:21 AM redskiesofyou: rabbit chan is like nasty fug
12:03:21 AM mikosutoka: hey can i send you a pic via tiny pic lia
12:03:21 AM loldamien: sell tickets to that chat
12:03:24 AM loldamien: make millions
12:03:24 AM mikosutoka: i think you'll find it amusing
12:03:27 AM ldfkufjq: link away
12:03:28 AM necrolich666: Who wants cheese cake
12:03:30 AM mikosutoka: kk ill go upload
12:03:37 AM q4tlqbvyhk: yes give me 30 seconds
12:04:11 AM mikosutoka: i'd love some cake
12:04:26 AM thelastmerovin: *bakes cake*
12:04:26 AM kilo1185: fucking thunderstorms dude
12:04:29 AM kilo1185: i swear to god
12:04:32 AM loldamien: delicious cake
12:04:33 AM necrolich666: *hands out cake*
12:04:35 AM q4tlqbvyhk: caek
12:04:37 AM necrolich666: there
12:04:42 AM ldfkufjq: lewl wtf miko, who is kamisori?
12:04:43 AM necrolich666: now you don't have to work for it
12:04:55 AM q4tlqbvyhk: http://i14.tinypic.com/6cgoffp.jpg
12:05:02 AM loldamien: Thank you necro <3
12:05:07 AM kilo1185: wtf at pic
12:05:13 AM thelastmerovin: lol
12:05:15 AM loldamien: that picture is repulsive.
12:05:17 AM redskiesofyou: what about the pic
12:05:22 AM ldfkufjq: ew
12:05:23 AM q4tlqbvyhk: http://i18.tinypic.com/5yu0faw.jpg
12:05:23 AM q4tlqbvyhk: and
12:05:23 AM kilo1185: A CARROT?
12:05:24 AM redskiesofyou: of her with the pic of lia?
12:05:24 AM necrolich666: lol
12:05:29 AM q4tlqbvyhk: you get it
12:05:31 AM q4tlqbvyhk: she's a rabbit
12:05:35 AM q4tlqbvyhk: but
12:05:36 AM redskiesofyou: wioops
12:05:38 AM q4tlqbvyhk: ok
12:05:39 AM redskiesofyou: my aim is sloqw
12:05:43 AM redskiesofyou: slowpoke.jpg
12:06:03 AM thelastmerovin: get the 'rabbit chan forever' picture
12:06:03 AM ldfkufjq: would that be like finding god?
12:06:09 AM necrolich666: yes
12:06:14 AM mikosutoka: link the pic again i didnt get to see i crashed
12:06:17 AM q4tlqbvyhk: http://i18.tinypic.com/5yu0faw.jpg
12:06:20 AM redskiesofyou: "i must see HARRY POTTER" paper in her room made me lolcringe
12:06:27 AM mikosutoka: oh i hate that picture ._.
12:06:33 AM q4tlqbvyhk: so 
12:06:33 AM thelastmerovin: LOL
12:06:42 AM q4tlqbvyhk: Lia should take this picture
12:06:43 AM loldamien: That picture brings out the worst in anonymous.
12:06:45 AM q4tlqbvyhk: and stage
12:06:53 AM q4tlqbvyhk: the oh shi- divide by zero 
12:06:55 AM mikosutoka: the difference between england and america
12:06:58 AM loldamien: Lia, print that picture out and take a shit on it.
12:07:01 AM redskiesofyou: i shouldnt be listening to such upbeat music before bed
12:07:02 AM mikosutoka: LOL
12:07:05 AM q4tlqbvyhk: lolololol
12:07:11 AM redskiesofyou: too much dancing instead of sleeping
12:07:20 AM ldfkufjq: oh wow
12:07:23 AM redskiesofyou: rabbit chan toilet paper
12:07:27 AM thelastmerovin: lol
12:07:37 AM q4tlqbvyhk: oh god oh god oh wow
12:07:37 AM comradelunar: thanks.
12:07:40 AM redskiesofyou: she's a jealous attention whore. none of her pics are interesting in the least
12:07:40 AM kilo1185: yes
12:07:57 AM necrolich666: I agree with red
12:08:00 AM comradelunar: who?
12:08:03 AM thelastmerovin: Nick is a fucking ugly beast
12:08:03 AM redskiesofyou: rabbit
12:08:08 AM ldfkufjq: no win without fail
12:08:11 AM comradelunar: I like Rabbit. <3 Rabbit.
12:08:14 AM redskiesofyou: >__>
12:08:20 AM comradelunar: loldongs.
12:08:20 AM redskiesofyou: makes sense
12:08:21 AM q4tlqbvyhk: rabbit has the cutest voice of any girl ever.
12:08:24 AM redskiesofyou: seeing as you hate ne XD
12:08:24 AM comradelunar: oooh.
12:08:28 AM redskiesofyou: me*
12:08:35 AM comradelunar: Two unconnected things.
12:08:40 AM thelastmerovin: everyone hates you
12:08:44 AM q4tlqbvyhk: i have nohting against any of you!
12:08:46 AM redskiesofyou: yea its fun
12:08:46 AM q4tlqbvyhk: fyi.
12:08:52 AM comradelunar: Quiet, you.
12:08:55 AM q4tlqbvyhk: also plz don't kill me
12:08:55 AM redskiesofyou: you guys matter ^__^
12:08:59 AM necrolich666: I <3 ALL OF YOU!
12:09:03 AM necrolich666: CAKE FOR ALL
12:09:07 AM kilo1185: <3
12:09:14 AM thelastmerovin: in b4 orgy
12:09:15 AM q4tlqbvyhk: this is delicious cake
12:09:18 AM necrolich666: Ewie
12:09:24 AM necrolich666: I AM CAKE
12:09:24 AM comradelunar: orgy pls
12:09:52 AM q4tlqbvyhk: no
12:09:55 AM comradelunar: k.
12:09:56 AM q4tlqbvyhk: http://i14.tinypic.com/6af1q95.jpg
12:10:00 AM kilo1185: negative
12:10:13 AM necrolich666: LOL
12:10:14 AM loldamien: lol holla
12:10:18 AM redskiesofyou: whatbandages needs to get home from work so i can sleep
12:10:40 AM mikosutoka: give or take two more hours
12:10:59 AM comradelunar: gawd, I haven't spoken to him in years. Or days.
12:11:05 AM ldfkufjq: why do you need to speak to wb faux?
12:11:53 AM redskiesofyou: cuz he needs to know i got free calls to his area now, no longer long distance
12:12:04 AM ldfkufjq: i see
12:12:08 AM redskiesofyou: new phone service yayy
12:12:13 AM redskiesofyou: he's mailing me a present shhh
12:12:18 AM mikosutoka: o.o
12:12:48 AM comradelunar: o.o
12:12:54 AM necrolich666: o.O
12:13:00 AM loldamien: o.o
12:13:00 AM lastxkveqxztoc: o.o
12:13:13 AM redskiesofyou: SHHHHHHH
12:13:15 AM redskiesofyou: SECRET
12:13:19 AM necrolich666: o.o
12:13:26 AM loldamien: lol
12:13:27 AM thelastmerovin: do not want
12:13:28 AM comradelunar: grnnnnd
12:13:41 AM necrolich666: OW POPPED A BLOOD VESSEL
12:13:44 AM redskiesofyou: lol
12:13:53 AM ldfkufjq: guys, i gotta go. phonecall.
12:13:59 AM thelastmerovin: "ugly ginger, gtfo"
12:14:11 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Go, for good?
12:14:11 AM comradelunar: rofl offal.
12:14:14 AM necrolich666: byezzzz
12:14:25 AM q4tlqbvyhk: k.  love is over. :(
12:14:30 AM mikosutoka: loev
12:14:31 AM loldamien: Take care!
12:14:32 AM ldfkufjq: dunno. i'll put this on away.
12:14:34 AM q4tlqbvyhk: k
12:14:38 AM necrolich666: yay
12:14:40 AM thelastmerovin: phonecall at 4am? awesome
12:14:40 AM comradelunar: Bye.
12:14:52 AM ldfkufjq: it's my boyfriend.
12:14:58 AM ldfkufjq: bai 2 u gaiz.
12:15:09 AM kilo1185: oh shi-
12:15:15 AM necrolich666: is she away?
12:15:17 AM thelastmerovin: /wrists
12:15:19 AM thelastmerovin: /wrists
12:15:22 AM comradelunar: CUTCUTCUT
12:15:26 AM comradelunar: CRAWLING IN MY SKIN
12:15:35 AM loldamien: i'm a knife, knifing around
12:15:38 AM necrolich666: cound
12:15:46 AM necrolich666: cound
12:15:51 AM necrolich666: what's that from?
12:15:56 AM necrolich666: argh this is gonna bother me
12:16:02 AM loldamien: cound?
12:16:03 AM necrolich666: yeah
12:16:13 AM redskiesofyou: gamesgamesgamesss
12:16:14 AM mikosutoka: time for suicide
12:16:14 AM comradelunar: DSFARGEG
12:16:24 AM necrolich666: basically
12:16:32 AM comradelunar: Well, that was all unexpected.
12:16:34 AM mikosutoka: well if you will grab that charcol stove over there
12:16:36 AM loldamien: Isn't that how the seasame street count pronounced "count"?
12:16:49 AM mikosutoka: i'll get some music going
12:16:49 AM q4tlqbvyhk: cound
12:17:02 AM thelastmerovin: what a fucked up day
12:17:06 AM necrolich666: k
12:17:10 AM loldamien: and how
12:17:10 AM mikosutoka: ok be seriously honest
12:17:16 AM mikosutoka: you guys didnt say half the shit you wanted to
12:17:17 AM comradelunar: Pass the hemlock, let's have a party.
12:17:18 AM thelastmerovin: I wonder why she waited so long
12:17:26 AM mikosutoka: because you were scared of offending her?
12:17:27 AM mikosutoka: ;_;
12:17:29 AM necrolich666: yeah
12:17:31 AM comradelunar: The mood was positive.
12:17:35 AM kilo1185: yes
12:17:38 AM necrolich666: definetly
12:17:38 AM mikosutoka: she's very polite and sweet
12:17:38 AM comradelunar: You don't want to be venting in a happy little chat.
12:17:42 AM q4tlqbvyhk: yes i'm glad for positive mood.
12:17:48 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I spoke with her privitely.  I think I said most of what I wanted to.
12:17:49 AM q4tlqbvyhk: she seems to like this
12:17:56 AM loldamien: This was a positive chat, tom green would be pleased.
12:17:59 AM mikosutoka: we can actually be friends?
12:17:59 AM mikosutoka: D:
12:18:10 AM necrolich666: that would be AMAZING
12:18:11 AM thelastmerovin: What 'Last' said
12:18:13 AM q4tlqbvyhk: lol
12:18:18 AM necrolich666: but alas
12:18:22 AM kilo1185: i think icarus did some bad stuff to get her info
12:18:26 AM thelastmerovin: although I spoke to her yesterday
12:18:27 AM mikosutoka: he did
12:18:28 AM kilo1185: h4x
12:18:31 AM mikosutoka: lets kill him
12:18:33 AM mikosutoka: :3
12:18:35 AM comradelunar: raep.
12:18:37 AM kilo1185: :3
12:18:37 AM necrolich666: What did he do
12:18:44 AM mikosutoka: he has her IRL info
12:18:45 AM kilo1185: he found out her info
12:18:52 AM thelastmerovin: don't say
12:18:59 AM lastxkveqxztoc: He didn't do anything, according to her.  Just searched really deep.
12:18:59 AM necrolich666: huh
12:19:00 AM q4tlqbvyhk: i don't want to know
12:19:03 AM mikosutoka: thats the only reason she showed up
12:19:09 AM mikosutoka: kinda
12:19:23 AM q4tlqbvyhk: *plugs ears* lalalala I GOT TO TALK TO CRACKY-CHAN 
12:19:25 AM redskiesofyou: well now i sleep. and toss this sn lolamirite
12:19:32 AM thelastmerovin: sources... must... protect... them.
12:19:33 AM mikosutoka: into the trash you gooo
12:19:38 AM mikosutoka: im sorry merovin
12:19:39 AM mikosutoka: i thought you were
12:19:41 AM mikosutoka: icarus for a while
12:19:43 AM redskiesofyou: gay
12:19:44 AM mikosutoka: but now i know who is
12:19:45 AM necrolich666: this is my main :(
12:19:54 AM comradelunar: same here.
12:19:57 AM loldamien: same
12:19:57 AM q4tlqbvyhk: NOT MINE
12:20:05 AM kilo1185: i just made this...
12:20:07 AM q4tlqbvyhk: heh half the people in here
12:20:10 AM kilo1185: i dislike aim
12:20:21 AM necrolich666: we already went over this
12:20:27 AM mikosutoka: aim sucks
12:20:34 AM redskiesofyou: im out of soymilk ;o;
12:20:35 AM thelastmerovin: Miko, can't you speak in one sentance, instead of using half the screen?
12:20:41 AM mikosutoka: i don't mean to its a bad habit
12:20:57 AM redskiesofyou: full
12:20:59 AM redskiesofyou: screen
12:20:59 AM redskiesofyou: this
12:21:01 AM redskiesofyou: shit
12:21:03 AM redskiesofyou: duuuude
12:21:04 AM q4tlqbvyhk: no
12:21:16 AM loldamien: lol i see what you did there
12:21:16 AM q4tlqbvyhk: miko miko nurse
12:21:19 AM mikosutoka: ;_;
12:21:39 AM thelastmerovin: DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU DESU 
12:21:45 AM kilo1185: oh hell no
12:21:49 AM mikosutoka: xD 
12:21:59 AM q4tlqbvyhk: hey who here has ever been to a website called 4chan.org
12:22:05 AM kilo1185: wuts 4chan?
12:22:08 AM loldamien: whats that
12:22:15 AM q4tlqbvyhk: it's a site about cats
12:22:16 AM thelastmerovin: never heard of it
12:22:20 AM necrolich666: .com
12:22:24 AM loldamien: 4chan.net
12:22:30 AM necrolich666: .gov LOL
12:22:33 AM kilo1185: lmao
12:22:36 AM loldamien: lol
12:22:39 AM comradelunar: 4chan.co.ck
12:22:40 AM necrolich666: someday xD
12:22:42 AM q4tlqbvyhk: know what's cool
12:22:47 AM q4tlqbvyhk: Lia has like
12:22:52 AM q4tlqbvyhk: more internet cred
12:22:53 AM thelastmerovin: wait, don't you mean wrestlingforums.com?
12:22:54 AM q4tlqbvyhk: than like...
12:23:00 AM kilo1185: ray charles?
12:23:00 AM q4tlqbvyhk: 3/4's of the internet
12:23:01 AM kilo1185: yes
12:23:06 AM loldamien: lol
12:23:08 AM q4tlqbvyhk: and we talked to her.
12:23:31 AM redskiesofyou: aww arent we alll so spashial now, group hug guys XD
12:23:45 AM comradelunar: ftgo
12:23:45 AM mikosutoka: ._<
12:23:49 AM thelastmerovin: ^this
12:23:59 AM comradelunar: tofg
12:24:15 AM kilo1185: ffs, will it stop thundering?
12:24:23 AM thelastmerovin: I think half of you jack each other off sometimes
12:24:42 AM comradelunar: maybe.
12:24:48 AM redskiesofyou: yea its called humor, try sometimes maybe
12:25:03 AM kilo1185: if anyone has a log of all of this dont release it
12:25:10 AM thelastmerovin: negative, does not compute.
12:25:16 AM redskiesofyou: 1 reach up ass
12:25:16 AM comradelunar: I got maybe half of it and got bored.
12:25:20 AM redskiesofyou: 2 remove stick
12:25:22 AM redskiesofyou: 3 ?????
12:25:25 AM redskiesofyou: 4 profit
12:25:28 AM thelastmerovin: What Kilo said.
12:25:33 AM comradelunar: anyone with the log should spread it like AIDS.
12:25:36 AM loldamien: Secrets safe with me! :3
12:25:42 AM mikosutoka: lunar
12:25:43 AM comradelunar: or at least give it to me.
12:25:45 AM lastxkveqxztoc: It's not like anything interesting was devulged, honestly.  Though I have no intention of releasing it anyway.
12:25:45 AM mikosutoka: i'm gonna butt raep you
12:25:51 AM mikosutoka: harrrd
12:25:53 AM mikosutoka: all night long too
12:25:57 AM q4tlqbvyhk: what Lia meant by she had a phone call
12:25:58 AM comradelunar: Can't rape the willing.
12:25:58 AM q4tlqbvyhk: was that 
12:26:07 AM q4tlqbvyhk: she was going to go take a dump on rabbit picture
12:26:12 AM loldamien: YES
12:26:16 AM comradelunar: Seriously though, it';s just like WB's hoarding. Faggotry in the 1st degree.
12:26:17 AM kilo1185: o rry?
12:26:20 AM redskiesofyou: i turned my autologging off oshi-
12:26:58 AM comradelunar: where do logs go? :|
12:27:04 AM mikosutoka: Q
12:27:08 AM mikosutoka: ii cant send you ims
12:27:15 AM q4tlqbvyhk: logs go into log houses
12:27:27 AM thelastmerovin: I
12:27:30 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I see what you did there.
12:27:36 AM loldamien: so are we all going to get secret, matching tattoos to prove we were in this chat together?
12:27:44 AM kilo1185: team ????
12:27:45 AM comradelunar: YES.
12:27:46 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Yes.
12:27:50 AM lastxkveqxztoc: lulz
12:27:56 AM comradelunar: Cracky-face, and it itches or something when she summons us.
12:27:59 AM comradelunar: I just read harry potter.
12:28:04 AM kilo1185: lol?
12:28:05 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Actually, I hate tattoos, so no.
12:28:17 AM loldamien: Crackyface on some navy looking thing so we don't get our asses kicked in public D:
12:28:23 AM comradelunar: XD
12:28:26 AM kilo1185: lol
12:28:46 AM thelastmerovin: Who controls the British crown? Who keeps the metric system down? We do! We do! Who leaves Atlantis off the maps? Who keeps the martians under wraps? We do! We do!
12:28:49 AM q4tlqbvyhk: http://i13.tinypic.com/4p44js1.jpg
12:28:58 AM q4tlqbvyhk: enjoy your cake
12:28:59 AM loldamien: lol
12:29:00 AM q4tlqbvyhk: bitches.
12:29:02 AM comradelunar: zomg, crackyconspiracy.
12:29:22 AM q4tlqbvyhk: crackyspiracy?
12:29:32 AM q4tlqbvyhk: WHO OWNS THE SKY
12:29:37 AM q4tlqbvyhk: she does T_T
12:29:49 AM comradelunar: The airspace is owned by the sovereign nation below it.
12:29:54 AM comradelunar: I mean, Cracky.
12:29:57 AM q4tlqbvyhk: yes
12:30:17 AM thelastmerovin: brb, ciggi & pie, yum yum.
12:30:23 AM q4tlqbvyhk: itt only like 3 people have seen me as crackylike
12:30:39 AM loldamien: i wanna see
12:30:39 AM mikosutoka: crackylike
12:30:42 AM mikosutoka: it was sooo kawaii
12:30:43 AM mikosutoka: :3
12:30:46 AM q4tlqbvyhk: k i'll show you damien
12:30:51 AM loldamien: score
12:30:55 AM thelastmerovin: there is no in without fail
12:30:56 AM comradelunar: show me, show me, plz
12:31:06 AM thelastmerovin: win*
12:31:18 AM q4tlqbvyhk: no
12:31:26 AM q4tlqbvyhk: there's a strict um
12:31:26 AM comradelunar: ):
12:31:31 AM q4tlqbvyhk: control 
12:31:32 AM q4tlqbvyhk: on this
12:31:41 AM comradelunar: Well fuck you then. Pffft.
12:31:45 AM thelastmerovin: lol 1-35W bridge
12:31:47 AM q4tlqbvyhk: :)
12:31:54 AM thelastmerovin: It was those exploding vans I tell you
12:32:07 AM q4tlqbvyhk: http://cracky.bounceme.net/
12:32:11 AM q4tlqbvyhk: Thoroughly amused
12:32:20 AM q4tlqbvyhk: WHICH ONE OF YOU RUNS BOUNCEME
12:32:23 AM q4tlqbvyhk: i know you're here...
12:32:29 AM necrolich666: LOL SOZ
12:33:13 AM comradelunar: Obviously you.
12:33:17 AM thelastmerovin: Ok here's a better question, how many of you know about the secret board?
12:33:20 AM q4tlqbvyhk: oh fuck.
12:33:25 AM necrolich666: what?
12:33:25 AM comradelunar: WHAT
12:33:26 AM q4tlqbvyhk: secret board on bounceme?
12:33:26 AM comradelunar: WHAT
12:33:27 AM comradelunar: WHAT
12:33:28 AM comradelunar: WHAT
12:33:30 AM necrolich666: 5?
12:33:31 AM mikosutoka: lol
12:33:37 AM comradelunar: or the faggy wish board.
12:33:39 AM q4tlqbvyhk: lol 5 pronounced "john"
12:33:48 AM kilo1185: excuse me?
12:33:55 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I like the Wish board.
12:34:05 AM q4tlqbvyhk: your mother's wish board
12:34:06 AM mikosutoka: ever heard of the practice of skinning cocks (like animal hides)
12:34:08 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I don't know if that's what he means by seekrit, though.
12:34:08 AM mikosutoka: ._<
12:34:16 AM kilo1185: seekrit you say?
12:34:22 AM q4tlqbvyhk: what you say
12:34:29 AM thelastmerovin: on bounceme
12:34:44 AM comradelunar: url nao lol
12:34:58 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Yes, plz.
12:35:00 AM kilo1185: plz
12:35:04 AM kilo1185: ill give u cookies
12:35:07 AM kilo1185: and cake
12:35:28 AM q4tlqbvyhk: hmm. there's a way to do this
12:35:38 AM mikosutoka: sekret
12:36:42 AM thelastmerovin: I
12:36:53 AM comradelunar: HNNNNNNNG
12:36:57 AM thelastmerovin: ffs fucking AIM
12:38:04 AM lastxkveqxztoc: So...who thinks she'll be back?
12:38:12 AM thelastmerovin: what a fucked up day
12:38:17 AM comradelunar: Wonderful day.
12:38:27 AM mikosutoka: i was gonna ask
12:38:29 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Wonderful, but fucked up.
12:38:29 AM mikosutoka: but i forgot to
12:38:32 AM mikosutoka: if vodka was really really REALLY
12:38:35 AM mikosutoka: the reason we are here
12:38:37 AM mikosutoka: or if it was boredom
12:38:42 AM mikosutoka: ;_;
12:38:43 AM kilo1185: huh?
12:38:45 AM q4tlqbvyhk: you guys... i don't feel like love is over.
12:38:47 AM kilo1185: vodka?
12:38:47 AM thelastmerovin: brb ciggie
12:38:50 AM comradelunar: I'm disappointed nobody mentioned THOSE pictures.
12:38:55 AM kilo1185: THOSE pics?
12:39:01 AM mikosutoka: be more precise.
12:39:02 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Huh?
12:39:04 AM comradelunar: menstrual blood, lol.
12:39:07 AM thelastmerovin: LAWL
12:39:16 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I talked to her about those.
12:39:27 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Briefly.
12:39:37 AM kilo1185: wut she say?
12:39:38 AM kilo1185: lol?
12:39:49 AM comradelunar: your penis.
12:39:57 AM lastxkveqxztoc: She said she found them amusing because they grossed people out.
12:40:09 AM q4tlqbvyhk: she's good like that.
12:40:23 AM kilo1185: becuase it was actually...
12:40:24 AM comradelunar: 7 kinds of odd.
12:40:24 AM thelastmerovin: same with the cutting pictures apperently
12:40:25 AM kilo1185: ketchup?
12:40:43 AM comradelunar: messed-up little irl and internet.
12:40:46 AM comradelunar: troll
12:42:28 AM kilo1185: so that css map made of cracky chan pictures is on the party van server...
12:42:31 AM kilo1185: i shall find it
12:43:52 AM lastxkveqxztoc: My whole body aches.  Anyone else having this problem?
12:44:01 AM comradelunar: I'm just jittery.
12:44:05 AM kilo1185: im jittery too
12:44:08 AM kilo1185: and fuck that
12:44:12 AM kilo1185: im not downloading sound files
12:44:12 AM comradelunar: Fucking fire ants in my pants.
12:44:16 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I think it's from shivering the whole time.
12:44:19 AM redskiesofyou: no i'm just sweaty. the power was out all day and the ac wont work >__< its like 90 degrees in this room.
12:44:22 AM thelastmerovin: I need a ciggie
12:44:47 AM comradelunar: You are the cancer that is killing you.
12:44:53 AM comradelunar: c whut i did thar?
12:44:59 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I saw it.
12:45:16 AM thelastmerovin: lol @ faux blocking me
12:45:26 AM redskiesofyou: fun game huhhhhh
12:45:30 AM thelastmerovin: INTERNET HATE MACHINE
12:45:36 AM q4tlqbvyhk: TheLastMerovin: lol @ faux blocking me
red skies of you: fun game huhhhhh
TheLastMerovin: INTERNET HATE MACHINE
12:45:52 AM mikosutoka: *bombs new zealand*
12:46:04 AM comradelunar: fuck, no logs.
12:46:14 AM thelastmerovin: good luck with that
12:46:21 AM q4tlqbvyhk: i has logs
12:46:32 AM comradelunar: I need logs, badly.
12:46:34 AM kilo1185: lol @ suede being away
12:46:40 AM q4tlqbvyhk: then go to the bathroom
12:46:41 AM q4tlqbvyhk: make some
12:46:46 AM comradelunar: OHSNAP
12:46:50 AM q4tlqbvyhk: oh toilet humor.  you've never failed me.
12:46:50 AM kilo1185: drop the kids off at the pool plz
12:46:50 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I feel really bad for Suede.
12:46:51 AM thelastmerovin: don't spread them around plzthx
12:47:02 AM comradelunar: Sending them to someone who was there is not spreading. D:
12:47:14 AM q4tlqbvyhk: suede was the kid that like got stuck 
12:47:16 AM q4tlqbvyhk: inside
12:47:21 AM q4tlqbvyhk: while all the other kids went out 
12:47:24 AM q4tlqbvyhk: and enjoy the 1 day in the sun
12:47:28 AM comradelunar: haha.
12:47:38 AM loldamien: oh god
12:47:41 AM loldamien: i remember that story D:
12:47:45 AM q4tlqbvyhk: yeah
12:47:46 AM loldamien: that was so sad :(
12:47:48 AM q4tlqbvyhk: yeah
12:47:58 AM lastxkveqxztoc: wtffff
12:48:12 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I saved the thread from Bounceme and now it doesn't fucking work.
12:48:23 AM kilo1185: i took screens of it
12:48:40 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Awesome.
12:48:52 AM redskiesofyou: wow i keep forgetting im still here. goodnightttttttttttt
12:48:54 AM comradelunar: rarararar
12:48:57 AM mikosutoka: bye
12:48:59 AM kilo1185: good night
12:49:10 AM comradelunar: gtfo lol
12:49:13 AM thelastmerovin: ugly ginger, gtfo
12:49:16 AM redskiesofyou: FRIENDS FOREVER LUNARRRR
12:49:17 AM comradelunar: and by lol i mean gtfo
12:49:32 AM mikosutoka: hey lunar
12:49:34 AM mikosutoka: can you get that
12:49:35 AM mikosutoka: for me
12:49:36 AM comradelunar: Just so you know, i hope she gets cancer.
12:49:44 AM comradelunar: get whut
12:49:44 AM mikosutoka: please its over there
12:49:50 AM thelastmerovin: yes...
12:49:55 AM mikosutoka: pass it this way
12:49:58 AM comradelunar: AIDS cancer.
12:50:00 AM mikosutoka: no
12:50:02 AM mikosutoka: behind you
12:50:07 AM q4tlqbvyhk: cancer on your aids virus
12:50:24 AM comradelunar: AIDS cancer and a car crash that kills her entire family.
12:50:32 AM comradelunar: not that I have anything against Faux.
12:50:42 AM thelastmerovin: holy shit I found a ciggarette behind my bed
12:50:46 AM kilo1185: o shi-
12:50:47 AM mikosutoka: good for you
12:50:54 AM thelastmerovin: brb
12:53:52 AM mikosutoka: so is everyone just
12:53:55 AM mikosutoka: generally numb
12:54:01 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Very much so.
12:54:09 AM mikosutoka: did you cry
12:54:15 AM kilo1185: no but im numb
12:54:16 AM mikosutoka: i mean like it was like tears of joy
12:54:20 AM mikosutoka: and laughing crying
12:54:21 AM mikosutoka: same thing
12:54:26 AM comradelunar: I don't feel much right now.
12:54:43 AM comradelunar: Calm.
12:54:43 AM lastxkveqxztoc: No, I just shook a lot.
12:54:45 AM kilo1185: is she 17 or 18 now?
12:54:48 AM mikosutoka: 17
12:54:52 AM kilo1185: thats what i thought
12:55:08 AM mikosutoka: it feels like a massive headache
12:56:02 AM comradelunar: I'm tired.
12:56:24 AM kilo1185: its only 11PM here
12:56:31 AM comradelunar: Almost 6AM here.
12:56:36 AM kilo1185: lmao
12:56:45 AM lastxkveqxztoc: 1AM here.
12:56:49 AM necrolich666: 1 here too
12:58:45 AM comradelunar: I wonder what the point of that was. It wasn't half as crushing as it could've been.
12:59:04 AM necrolich666: I agree
12:59:08 AM necrolich666: Well I'm pretty crushed
12:59:15 AM kilo1185: yeap
12:59:26 AM necrolich666: the way she flings around the word boyfriend hurts me alot
12:59:36 AM comradelunar: I think that was pretty pointed.
12:59:46 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Can someone invite Daisuke back?
12:59:47 AM comradelunar: Like as 'just so you all knoiw' thing.
12:59:51 AM comradelunar: know
12:59:52 AM kilo1185: i will
1:00:16 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Lovely.
1:00:22 AM daisukexkun: Whoa
1:00:27 AM daisukexkun: My window messed up
1:00:30 AM lastxkveqxztoc: But anyway, I don't think she flung it around, really.
1:00:33 AM daisukexkun: brb
1:00:33 AM necrolich666: :(
1:00:45 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Didn't she only say it like two or three times?
1:00:54 AM necrolich666: it felt like more then that
1:00:58 AM necrolich666: but yeah
1:00:59 AM kilo1185: more like 4 or 5
1:01:00 AM comradelunar: Three A-bombs.
1:01:02 AM daisukexkun: What?
1:01:05 AM daisukexkun: I'm lost
1:01:06 AM comradelunar: But... B.
1:01:10 AM lastxkveqxztoc: lol
1:01:27 AM daisukexkun: Where'd Faux go?
1:01:30 AM kilo1185: she left
1:01:34 AM necrolich666: work etc
1:01:34 AM daisukexkun: Ah
1:01:35 AM comradelunar: Back to hades.
1:01:49 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I feel shitty.  srsly
1:01:54 AM comradelunar: group hug.
1:01:58 AM necrolich666: :D
1:02:03 AM daisukexkun: I have no clue what happened
1:02:03 AM necrolich666: that didn't help :(\
1:02:11 AM lastxkveqxztoc: :/
1:02:13 AM mikosutoka: well
1:02:19 AM daisukexkun: Anyone have it logged after I left?
1:02:19 AM necrolich666: Daisuke have you seen the new pics?
1:02:25 AM daisukexkun: Nope
1:02:29 AM necrolich666: um yeah
1:02:29 AM daisukexkun: Just the two posted earlier.
1:02:29 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I've got everything logged.
1:02:34 AM comradelunar: they will RAPE YOUR MIND
1:02:36 AM daisukexkun: Sent it please?
1:02:38 AM daisukexkun: Alright.
1:02:43 AM daisukexkun: Actually
1:02:50 AM daisukexkun: Save it to a txt file and send me the link.
1:03:00 AM kilo1185: she posted 3 new pictures
1:03:01 AM kilo1185: hmm
1:03:17 AM kilo1185: one of the dates in the EXIF was 7/14/07
1:03:23 AM daisukexkun: Wow
1:03:25 AM comradelunar: Srsly, can someone send me the log? I really need to pore over it a few hundred times.
1:03:40 AM mikosutoka: i would but you're just gonna post it
1:03:42 AM mikosutoka: and im not up for it so no
1:03:49 AM comradelunar: Oh, got o hell. Seriously. Fuck off.
1:03:53 AM daisukexkun: =/
1:03:55 AM mikosutoka: you said you were going to
1:04:00 AM mikosutoka: are you not going to now
1:04:00 AM daisukexkun: Not the time for iy.
1:04:05 AM daisukexkun: it*
1:04:10 AM comradelunar: No, I said not doing it would be like WB's hoarding faggotry.
1:04:16 AM daisukexkun: True
1:04:24 AM comradelunar: Two entirely seperate things.
1:04:29 AM mikosutoka: i don't get it
1:04:33 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Wait, aren't you Lunarsandwich?
1:04:34 AM thelastmerovin: WB is a fucking cockwit
1:04:39 AM comradelunar: Yes, I am. lol.
1:04:47 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I thought you were part of his circlejerk.
1:04:55 AM comradelunar: Not since I posted the nekoofox url.
1:04:58 AM comradelunar: nekofox
1:05:02 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Ah.
1:05:07 AM lastxkveqxztoc: What was on there, by the way?
1:05:08 AM comradelunar: Delivered, lolz.
1:05:13 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Or is it all out now?
1:05:18 AM daisukexkun: It's all out I believe
1:05:23 AM comradelunar: It's all out now, common stuff.
1:05:32 AM kilo1185: the chat log?
1:05:40 AM daisukexkun: Oh yes
1:05:43 AM daisukexkun: Please
1:05:45 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I guess that's my job?
1:05:51 AM daisukexkun: I still regret that I missed it.
1:05:58 AM kilo1185: i missed the first half of it
1:06:00 AM daisukexkun: Damn my brother for having authority over me.
1:06:00 AM daisukexkun: -.
1:06:02 AM thelastmerovin: fucking hell, nobody release the chat log publicly PLEASE.
1:06:02 AM daisukexkun: =/
1:06:06 AM daisukexkun: Of course
1:06:12 AM daisukexkun: Actually
1:06:13 AM mikosutoka: it will only make her not come back
1:06:15 AM daisukexkun: Last
1:06:21 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Yes?
1:06:21 AM daisukexkun: Upload it to my snapdrive account
1:06:23 AM comradelunar: I've got my reservations about the hoarding thing, but fhey, whatever.
1:06:27 AM necrolich666: In all seriousness
1:06:34 AM mikosutoka: its not hoarding lunar in this case its a matter of fuel
1:06:38 AM comradelunar: bullshit, on the not coming back front.
1:06:41 AM mikosutoka: you're gonna fuel the fire and cracky haet fire
1:06:47 AM comradelunar: Bullshit again.
1:06:50 AM mikosutoka: whatever
1:06:54 AM thelastmerovin: I spoke to her about it
1:06:59 AM kilo1185: what she say?
1:07:20 AM necrolich666: What does everyone want from cracky, I mean that like, I always viewed her as this perfect thing till now, but just ugh, like she just would link with me mentally perfectly
1:07:27 AM thelastmerovin: 10-15 people knowing her, etc, fine. Half of /b/ crawling up her ass = DO NOT WANT
1:07:28 AM necrolich666: I don't know it's weird
1:07:34 AM daisukexkun: Well
1:07:44 AM daisukexkun: This experience made me wanna become a buddist
1:07:46 AM daisukexkun: Somewhat
1:07:50 AM necrolich666: why's that
1:07:54 AM daisukexkun: I don't know
1:08:00 AM daisukexkun: I just feel weird
1:08:04 AM comradelunar: Fuck thisssss.
1:08:08 AM daisukexkun: It's something I can't explain.
1:08:23 AM necrolich666: what's wrong Lunar?
1:08:52 AM comradelunar: The whole thing's making me sick.
1:08:57 AM mikosutoka: then go lay down
1:08:59 AM kilo1185: im already past that
1:09:34 AM necrolich666: the whole thing makes everyone sick on different levels
1:09:39 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Ugh.
1:09:44 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I can't upload txt files?
1:09:48 AM daisukexkun: What?
1:09:52 AM daisukexkun: No way
1:09:58 AM comradelunar: RAR
1:10:11 AM daisukexkun: You should be able too.
1:10:12 AM daisukexkun: To*
1:10:13 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I'll just change the extention.  Switch it back to txt when you download it.
1:10:16 AM daisukexkun: Alright
1:10:17 AM thelastmerovin: just email it to me
1:10:35 AM daisukexkun: I gave him my login info for filehosting site.
1:10:50 AM lastxkveqxztoc: ....Uh...okay.
1:10:53 AM daisukexkun: As soon as those who wanted the log have it, it's being wiped off/
1:10:54 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I can't upload that either.
1:10:55 AM lastxkveqxztoc: wtf
1:11:00 AM daisukexkun: Christ.
1:11:06 AM kilo1185: rapidshare?
1:11:06 AM comradelunar: Just rar it up.
1:11:15 AM thelastmerovin: ok good idea Daisuke
1:11:23 AM daisukexkun: Better idea
1:11:27 AM daisukexkun: my OTHER site
1:11:29 AM kilo1185: well you can just rar or zip it
1:11:52 AM thelastmerovin: I must say, she's looking fucking cute in those new pics
1:12:04 AM lastxkveqxztoc: I zipped it.  It worked.
1:12:06 AM thelastmerovin: anyone have info on her bf? Miko?
1:12:15 AM daisukexkun: Alright
1:12:30 AM comradelunar: woo.
1:12:41 AM thelastmerovin: /r/ link
1:12:52 AM daisukexkun: Hold on guys
1:13:12 AM mikosutoka: :/
1:13:48 AM daisukexkun: Whoever wants the link
1:13:49 AM daisukexkun: IM me
1:14:56 AM daisukexkun: That it?
1:15:03 AM loldamien: want what again?
1:15:09 AM daisukexkun: the chatlog
1:15:15 AM thelastmerovin: saved
1:15:21 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Oh, I have the crackybounceme2 log too, by the way, but nothing happened, really.
1:15:22 AM loldamien: I should be good
1:15:32 AM daisukexkun: The second log doesn't matter
1:15:37 AM daisukexkun: Nothing happened
1:15:44 AM daisukexkun: Just a lot of hiccups and errors
1:15:44 AM loldamien: thanks though!
1:15:48 AM daisukexkun: No problem
1:15:50 AM daisukexkun: Alright
1:15:53 AM daisukexkun: Is that it?
1:15:59 AM daisukexkun: Because I will delete it.
1:17:44 AM kilo1185: go ahead
1:17:50 AM kilo1185: i didnt miss much
1:17:54 AM kilo1185: i dont think anyone did
1:18:08 AM daisukexkun: Alright
1:18:23 AM kilo1185: i wonder how many lines are in the log
1:18:29 AM kilo1185: fucking notepad
1:18:31 AM daisukexkun: A lot
1:20:46 AM lastxkveqxztoc: crackystalker?
1:20:52 AM daisukexkun: What?
1:20:56 AM mikosutoka: i dont see
1:20:59 AM kilo1185: who?
1:21:01 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Who was that?
1:21:10 AM daisukexkun: I don't know
1:21:33 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Well, anyway...aftermath.  How does everyone feel?
1:21:38 AM kilo1185: sad
1:21:45 AM daisukexkun: Yes
1:21:54 AM lastxkveqxztoc: No one feeling suicidal, I hope?
1:22:05 AM mikosutoka: er
1:22:06 AM thelastmerovin: I was loling half the time
1:22:10 AM mikosutoka: *burning charcol grills*
1:22:12 AM kilo1185: well i
1:22:16 AM kilo1185: *loads Glock*
1:22:22 AM lastxkveqxztoc: lulz
1:22:37 AM kilo1185: oh shi-
1:22:47 AM thelastmerovin: so who else got her 'non-throw-away' details?
1:22:51 AM lastxkveqxztoc: It didn't have much of an effect on me as I expected.  I think it may take a while it hit me, though.
1:23:05 AM lastxkveqxztoc: You're fucking shitting me.
1:23:52 AM thelastmerovin: ?
1:23:56 AM kilo1185: wow, during the first half of the chat my messages were soo out of sync
1:23:59 AM kilo1185: by 1 to 2 minutes
1:24:09 AM daisukexkun: Same here last
1:24:17 AM lastxkveqxztoc: She gave you her real screenname?
1:24:22 AM daisukexkun: What?
1:24:23 AM daisukexkun: No
1:24:24 AM daisukexkun: =/
1:24:27 AM daisukexkun: I wish
1:24:33 AM daisukexkun: I really do want to speak to her.
1:24:42 AM lastxkveqxztoc: No, Merovingian.
1:24:46 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Or are you just fucking with me?
1:24:54 AM daisukexkun: ?
1:24:58 AM mikosutoka: ._.
1:25:06 AM thelastmerovin: just asking that's all.
1:25:11 AM lastxkveqxztoc: But did you?
1:26:04 AM thelastmerovin: *sigh*
1:26:08 AM mikosutoka: ._.
1:26:11 AM crackystalker: There we go
1:26:15 AM crackystalker: Is whatbandages a meme yet?
1:26:23 AM mikosutoka: -_- im going to kill myself
1:26:24 AM daisukexkun: lol
1:26:28 AM thelastmerovin: >_<
1:26:38 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Seriously.  I'm not going to harrass you for it, I just want to know if you really did.
1:26:50 AM crackystalker: Weeaboo smileys? Sign me the fuck up 6_o'''
1:26:55 AM thelastmerovin: no
1:27:35 AM lastxkveqxztoc: ...I see.
1:27:42 AM daisukexkun: Yes.
1:27:55 AM loldamien: ^____________________________^
1:28:04 AM daisukexkun: Hey last
1:28:20 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Hm?
1:28:39 AM crackystalker: Is this development on ED yet?
1:28:45 AM lastxkveqxztoc: Doubtful.
1:28:49 AM kilo1185: is it?
1:28:50 AM crackystalker: How insulted IS the cracky-dom?
1:29:04 AM thelastmerovin: for fucks sake, don't put this shit on ED
1:29:16 AM daisukexkun: Dear god no
1:29:18 AM kilo1185: dont put it on anything
1:29:22 AM kilo1185: leave it off the record
1:29:27 AM kilo1185: none of this happened
1:29:27 AM q4tlqbvyhk: i'm still 
1:29:30 AM kilo1185: swamp gas my friends
1:29:31 AM crackystalker: WHO IS ALL ABOUT SECRETS NOW?

-------

I kind of feel bad for Suede.

-------

[06:34] Introperv: but like I said obviously people are drawn to the works, just check the hit counter on crackypedia
[06:34] TAFKACC: crackypedia?
[06:34] Introperv: uh… yeah crackypedia.blueyonder.co.uk
[06:35] Introperv: uh sorry wrong addr
[06:35] Introperv: http://www.crackypedia.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/
[06:35] TAFKACC: ………
[06:35] TAFKACC: wow.
[06:35] Introperv: don’t tell me you didn’t know
[06:36] Introperv: has been up for months and months
[06:36] TAFKACC: i had no idea.
[06:36] Introperv: oh alsa will be interested to hear that I think
[06:36] TAFKACC: ….
[06:36] Introperv: alsa chides us “hardcore” stalkers all the time for going to far
[06:37] TAFKACC: i don’t know what to say.

-------

i don't care what you do with any existing images.

all i ask is that could you leave me alone, and stop trying to invade my privacy. 

-------

i do still take pictures, just very, very rarely of myself. i always did it for my own amusement and it very quickly ceases to be amusing when i have my privacy raped because of it. i had no idea that people would take pictures this seriously - to me it was just like playing pretend, being different personas etc. and pictures of me have little to do with who i actually am.

suicide eh? tempting as it may be, i'm not some kind of deity who demands virgin sacrifices.

-------

This is the end of pasta3.txt.  To be continued in pasta4.txt
